===== PAGE 1 =====
KIMIK3: OPENFRONTIERINTELLIGENCE
TECHNICALREPORT OFKIMIK3
Kimi Team
ABSTRACT
We introduce Kimi K3, a 2.8T parameter Mixture-of-Experts model with 104 billion activated
parameters, native vision capabilities, and a 1-million-token context window. Kimi K3 is built on
Kimi Delta Attention [64] and Attention Residuals [58], which improve information flow across
sequence length and model depth. Together with Stable LatentMoE, which effectively activates
16 of 896 routed experts per token, and refined training and data recipes, these advances yield an
approximately 2.5× improvement in overall scaling efficiency over Kimi K2 [59]. Post-training
highlights reinforcement learning across general, agentic, and coding domains and multiple reasoning-
effort levels, enabling compositional generalization and robust long-horizon execution. At 2.8T scale,
Kimi K3 is supported by infrastructure advances in multiple areas: algorithm-system co-design for
KDA, perfectly balanced expert-parallel training with efficient memory management, million-token
agentic RL with persistent rollout and sandbox states, and deployment innovations.
Extensive evaluations show that Kimi K3 achieves frontier-level performance across long-horizon
coding, agentic, knowledge, reasoning, and vision tasks. While its overall performance still trails the
most powerful proprietary models, namely Claude Fable 5 and GPT-5.6 Sol, Kimi K3 consistently
outperforms other open and proprietary models evaluated in our suite. We release the full Kimi K3
model weights to facilitate future research and accelerate the broader deployment and adoption of
frontier intelligence.1
Coding All maxed out on thinking effort: max or xhigh.
DeepSWE
GPT -5.6 Sol
 73.0
Fable 5
 70.0
Kimi K3
 67.5
GPT -5.5
 67.0
Opus 4.8
 59.0
GLM-5.2
 46.2
Terminal-Bench 2.1
GPT -5.6 Sol
 88.8
Kimi K3
 88.3
Fable 5
 88.0
Opus 4.8
 84.6
GPT -5.5
 83.4
GLM-5.2
 82.7
FrontierSWE
Fable 5
 86.6
Kimi K3
 81.2
GPT -5.6 Sol
 71.3
GLM-5.2
 67.3
Opus 4.8
 66.7
GPT -5.5
 64.9
Kimi Code Bench 2.0 (Internal)
Fable 5
 76.9
Kimi K3
 72.9
Opus 4.8
 71.7
GPT -5.5
 69.0
GPT -5.6 Sol
 64.8
GLM-5.2
 64.2
ProgramBench
Kimi K3
 77.8
GPT -5.6 Sol
 77.6
Fable 5
 76.8
Opus 4.8
 71.9
GPT -5.5
 70.8
GLM-5.2
 63.7
SWE-Marathon
Kimi K3
 42.0
Opus 4.8
 40.0
GPT -5.6 Sol
 39.0
Fable 5
 35.0
GPT -5.5
 14.0
GLM-5.2
 13.0
General & Visual Agents All maxed out on thinking effort: max or xhigh.
GDPval-AA v2 Elo
Fable 5
 1747
GPT -5.6 Sol
 1736
Kimi K3
 1686
Opus 4.8
 1593
GLM-5.2
 1510
GPT -5.5
 1491
The GDPval-AA v2 scores are from Artificial Analysis, as of July 23, 2026.
BrowseComp
Kimi K3
 91.2
GPT -5.6 Sol
 90.4
Fable 5
 88.0
GPT -5.5
 84.4
Opus 4.8
 84.3
AutomationBench
Kimi K3
 30.8
GPT -5.6 Sol
 29.7
Fable 5
 29.1
Opus 4.8
 27.2
GPT -5.5
 22.7
GLM-5.2
 12.9
JobBench
Fable 5
 57.4
Kimi K3
 54.3
Opus 4.8
 48.4
GPT -5.6 Sol
 45.4
GLM-5.2
 43.4
GPT -5.5
 38.3
CharXiv (RQ) w/ tool
Fable 5
 93.5
Kimi K3
 91.3
Opus 4.8
 89.9
GPT -5.6 Sol
 89.1
GPT -5.5
 89.0
ZeroBench w/ tool (Pass@5)
Fable 5
 46.0
Kimi K3
 41.0
GPT -5.5
 41.0
GPT -5.6 Sol
 35.0
Opus 4.8
 34.0
Note: All Fable 5 results are with potential fallbacks. All GPT -5.6 Sol results include potential cyberguards.
Figure 1: Kimi K3 main results.
1https://huggingface.co/moonshotai/Kimi-K3
===== PAGE 2 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
1 Introduction
For much of the development of Large Language Models (LLMs), scaling meant investing more computation before
deployment by training larger models on more data [55, 46]. The rise of reasoning models has established test-time
computation as a second axis of scaling: OpenAI’s o-series scales reinforcement learning and test-time reasoning [85,
84]; Anthropic’s extended-thinking models allocate adaptive thinking budgets and interleave reasoning with tool use [6,
7]; DeepSeek-R1 [41] and Kimi K1.5 [120] show that large-scale reinforcement learning can elicit sophisticated
reasoning behaviors from strong pre-trained models; and Kimi K2.5 Agent Swarm [60] further extends test-time
scaling from sequential reasoning to parallel agent coordination. These advances have made test-time scaling a central
focus of frontier research. However, while the open-source model ecosystem has advanced rapidly on the second
axis, it has progressed slowly on the first: many recent models remain within or slightly above the 1T-class parameter
regime [147, 29, 137, 122]. As increasingly sophisticated reasoning and agentic reinforcement learning methods
are applied to pre-trained foundations of similar scale, open-source progress risks converging while the gap to the
strongest proprietary systems widens. With Kimi K3, we pursue both scaling axes together to the frontier: scaling the
pre-trained foundation to unprecedented 3T-class parameters while scaling reinforcement learning, reasoning effort, and
long-horizon interaction at 1M context length.
We introduce Kimi K3, a native multimodal Mixture-of-Experts model with 2.8 trillion total parameters, 104 billion
activated parameters, and a context window of up to one million tokens. Its architecture scales information flow
across sequence length, network depth, and model width. Kimi Delta Attention (KDA) [64] provides efficient long-
sequence mixing, with periodically interleaved Gated MLA layers preserving global interaction. Attention Residuals
(AttnRes) [58] allows each layer to selectively attend to representations from all preceding layers. Stable LatentMoE
expands the routed expert space to 896 experts, with 16 activated per token, while normalization, SiTU-GLU, and
Quantile Balancing stabilize optimization at extreme sparsity. These architectural advances, combined with refined data
and training recipes, yield an approximately2.5×improvement in overall scaling efficiency over Kimi K2 [59].
We pair this pre-training foundation with post-training designed explicitly for 1M context test-time scaling. Kimi
K3 undergoes reinforcement learning across long-horizon coding, general agents, general reasoning and knowledge
tasks, each spanning multiple reasoning-effort levels. Training environments include verifiable search and professional
knowledge work, software engineering and kernel optimization, multimodal reasoning with vision-in-the-loop tool
use, persistent assistant workflows, web development, and autonomous execution tasks. These environments train a
general loop of reasoning, acting, observing, verifying, and adapting, often over hundreds or thousands of tool calls and
millions of accumulated context tokens. Domain- and effort-specialized policies are consolidated into a unified model
through multi-teacher on-policy distillation [76, 136, 29].
Realizing this regime requires infrastructure that scales with architecture complexity, model size, and trajectory length.
For systems co-design for KDA, we develop fused kernels, KDA Context Parallelism, and state-aware prefix caching
to make KDA efficient within devices, across devices, and across requests. For 2.8T-parameter MoE pre-training,
MoonEP provides perfectly balanced expert execution with static computation shapes and zero-copy communication,
while memory efficient training and multimodal encoder optimizations sustain utilization within bounded memory.
For million-token agentic RL, our co-located system combines partial rollouts, external KV-cache retention, adaptive
throttling and resumable microVM sandboxes to preserve long-lived model and environment state. Finally, specialized
kernels, and cache- and budget-aware fleet scheduling translate these innovations into predictable production serving.
The resulting model establishes a new open frontier. On benchmarks spanning long-horizon coding, agentic, knowledge,
reasoning, and vision tasks, Kimi K3 trails the strongest proprietary systems overall—Claude Fable 5 and GPT-5.6
Sol—and is consistently ahead of the other open and proprietary models evaluated in our suite, as shown in Fig. 1.
Our contributions are summarized as follows:
• Pre-training at the open frontier.We train a 2.8T-parameter native multimodal MoE model with 104B activated
parameters and a 1M-token context window. KDA, AttnRes, Stable LatentMoE, refined data and training recipes
collectively improve overall scaling efficiency by approximately2.5×over Kimi K2.
• Reinforcement learning for multi-effort test-time scaling.We conduct RL across general, agentic, and coding
domains and multiple reasoning-effort levels, then consolidate the resulting capabilities into a unified model.
• Infrastructure for multi-trillion-parameter, million-token intelligence.We introduce KDA systems co-designs;
MoonEP and memory-efficient infrastructure for 2.8T-parameter MoE pre-training; a co-located RL system with
resumable sandboxes for million-token agentic trajectories; and more infrastructure innovations.
• An open frontier model.We release the full Kimi K3 model weights, making frontier intelligence available for
research, deployment, and further innovation.
2
===== PAGE 3 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
KDA
Stable LatentMoE
Gated MLA
Stable LatentMoE
α
w
α
w
α
w
α
w
αw
Output
Blockn−1
Blockn−2
Embedding
3×
1×
Shared Expert
Routed Expert
1 2 21 3 N
Router Linear
Linear
Norm
MLP
MoonViT-V2
Kimi Delta Attention
Norm
Linear
Linear
Conv
L2
Linear
Conv
L2
Linear
Conv σ σ
Linear
σ
q k v α β
α
α
α
α
α
w
w
w
w
w
KDA
Stable LatentMoE
Gated MLA
Stable LatentMoE
Blockn−1
Blockn−2
Embedding
Figure 2: The Kimi K3 architecture, organized around token, channel, and layer mixing, with a native vision pathway at the input.
Each block contains three Kimi Delta Attention (KDA) layers followed by one Gated MLA layer, with each attention layer paired
with a Stable LatentMoE feed-forward network. Attention Residuals (AttnRes) use learned pseudo-queries (w) to derive attention
weights (α) over the embedding and preceding block outputs, enabling selective information flow across depth.Top left: the Stable
LatentMoE module with shared and routed experts.Bottom left: the KDA module.Bottom right: the native vision pathway.
2 Model Architecture
The Kimi K3 architecture is designed to scale information flow along three complementary dimensions: sequence
length, network depth, and model width. Along the sequence dimension, Hybrid Attention combines three Kimi Delta
Attention (KDA) [64] layers with one Gated MLA layer in each block, providing an efficient mechanism for long-context
token mixing while retaining selective high-capacity attention (§2.1). Along the depth dimension, Attention Residuals
(AttnRes) [58] enable each module to selectively retrieve representations from the embedding, the current block, and
preceding blocks, extending information access beyond conventional sequential residual accumulation (§2.2). Along
the width dimension, each attention layer is followed by a Stable LatentMoE layer that performs sparse channel mixing,
effectively activating 16 of 896 routed experts for each token (§2.3). For native vision, MoonViT-V2 encodes images
and videos, and a lightweight projector maps the resulting visual features into the shared embedding space before
backbone processing (§2.4). Together with Per-Head Muon (§2.5), these components provide a unified architecture for
scaling information flow across tokens, layers, and channels. Combined with refined training and data recipes, they
yield an approximately 2.5× improvement in overall scaling efficiency over Kimi K2. Figure 2 provides an overview of
the architecture.
3
===== PAGE 4 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
2.1 Hybrid Attention
Kimi K3 uses a layerwise hybrid of linear and global attention, combining KDA [64] with Gated MLA. Each block
contains 3 KDA layers followed by 1 Gated MLA layer, giving a 3:1 mixing ratio. This pattern is repeated throughout
the backbone. The two attention mechanisms are described separately below. An additional Gated MLA layer is placed
at the end of the backbone, ensuring that the final layer always performs global attention.
2.1.1 Kimi Delta Attention
KDA extends the delta-rule recurrence [106, 140] with a channel-wise forget gate [64]. Consider a sequence of hidden
statesxt∈R d, wheret indexes the token position andd is the model hidden dimension. For clarity, we first describe a
single attention head, with query and key vectorsqt,kt∈R dk, value vectorvt∈R dv, and recurrent state St∈R dk×dv.
KDA applies channel-wise decay before the delta-rule update:
St =
 
I−β tktk⊤
t

Diag(αt)St−1 +βtktv⊤
t , ˜ot =S⊤
tqt.(1)
Here,αt∈(0,1) dk is the channel-wise one-step retention factor, andβt∈(0,1) controls the delta-rule write strength.
Following Kimi Linear [64], KDA parameterizes the per-head quantities as
qh
t,kh
t = L2Norm

Swish

ShortConv

Wh
q/kxt

∈R dk,
vh
t = Swish
 
ShortConv
 
Wh
vxt

∈R dv,
βh
t = Sigmoid
 
Wh
βxt

∈(0,1),
zh
t =W↑
αW↓
αxt +bh
α∈R dk.(2)
The query, key, and value projections applyShortConv followed by Swish [140], and the query and key are further
normalized with L2Norm [143]. The low-rank projection and head-specific bias bh
α∈R dk produce a fine-grained
decay logitzh
t for each key channel. The lower-bounded mapping fromzh
t toαh
t is introduced after the chunkwise
formulation below.
Chunkwise parallel formFollowing Kimi Linear [64], KDA is recurrent across chunks and parallel within each
chunk. For a chunk sizeC,X [t] stacks the token vectors in thet-th chunk forX∈{Q,K,V,O,U,W}. The matrix
S[t]∈R dk×dv denotes the recurrent state entering chunk t. For positions 1≤i≤j≤C , define the channel-wise
cumulative decay
γi→j
[t] :=
jY
r=i
αr
[t],γ r
[t] :=γ 1→r
[t] .(3)
As in Kimi Linear, Γ1→C
[t] ∈R C×dk stacksγ1
[t],...,γ C
[t] row-wise. The UT transform produces U[t] and W[t], from
which we define the pseudo-value termeV[t] :=U [t]−W [t]S[t]. Given the incoming state S[t], all outputs in chunkt
are computed in parallel as
A[t] = Tril
h
(Q[t]⊙Γ 1→C
[t] )(K[t]/Γ1→C
[t] )⊤
i
,
O[t] = (Γ1→C
[t] ⊙Q [t])S[t]
| {z }
inter-chunk
+A [t]eV[t]
| {z }
intra-chunk
.(4)
For a matrix M, Tril(M) sets all strictly upper-triangular entries to zero and retains the lower-triangular entries,
including the diagonal. This mask enforces causal interactions within the chunk, and the diagonal is retained because
each output reads the state after the current-token update. The first term in O[t] carries information from preceding
chunks, whereas the second term accounts for interactions within the current chunk. We refer readers to Kimi Linear [64]
for the UT transform and the full derivation of the chunkwise form.
Lower-bounded decayEq. 4 rescales the keys in each chunk by the reciprocal cumulative decay 1/Γ1→C
[t] . Because
Γ1→C
[t] is a product of retention factors in (0,1) , this reciprocal can grow without bound and overflow in finite
precision [142, 64]. Kimi Linear controls this numerical range by computing relative decay in log space and dividing
each chunk into secondary 16-token tiles [142, 64]. The off-diagonal tiles can then be computed with dense matrix
multiplications on Tensor Cores directly. The diagonal tiles, in contrast, still require explicit position-pair computations,
which remain the main intra-chunk bottleneck.
4
===== PAGE 5 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Kimi Linear:g=−e A Softplus(z)
Kimi K3:g=g min Sigmoid(eAz)
g
z
0
gmin =−5
−∞
A= 0
(a) Log-decay parameterization.
Kimi Linear Kimi K3
lower-bounded
Position-pair Diagonal
Tensor Core
(b) Diagonal-tile computation.
Figure 3: Lower-bounded decay and its effect on chunkwise KDA computation.(a)Kimi Linear uses an unbounded negative-Softplus
mapping, whereas Kimi K3 bounds the log-decay with a scaled sigmoid; the curves showA= 0 andgmin =−5 .(b)Kimi Linear
evaluates each diagonal tile with an explicit position-pair computation, while the bounded range in Kimi K3 allows all causal tiles to
use dense Tensor Core matrix multiplications.
Kimi K3 addresses this bottleneck by changing the mapping from the decay logits zh
t to the per-step log-decay
gh
t . Following GDN and Mamba-2, Kimi Linear uses the negative-Softplus mapping gh
t =−e Ah Softplus(zh
t )∈
(−∞,0)dk [140, 24, 64]. Kimi K3 instead uses a scaled sigmoid to bound the log-decay from below:
gh
t =g min Sigmoid
 
eAhzh
t

∈(g min,0)dk,
αh
t = exp(gh
t )∈(e gmin,1)dk,(5)
whereAh is a learnable per-head log-scale andgmin =−5 is fixed. We initializeAh = 0, and each biasbh
α is initialized
following [64, 24, 140]. Withgmin =−5 , every retention factor satisfiesαh
t,j >e−5≈6.7×10 −3, and the cumulative
log-decay over a 16-token tile lies in (−80,0) . The corresponding reciprocal rescaling factor is therefore smaller
thane80 and remains within the BF16 dynamic range. This finite range allows both diagonal and off-diagonal tiles to
use dense Tensor Core matrix multiplications, eliminating the position-pair diagonal path. This parameterization is
closely related to the lower-bounded recurrence gates in prior work [98, 27, 92]. Fig. 3 illustrates the change in decay
parameterization and its computational consequence.
Full-rank gateFinally, Kimi K3 changes KDA’s output gate from the low-rank parameterization used by Kimi
Linear [64] to an input-dependent full-rank projection. After applying head-wise RMSNorm [148] to the recurrent
output, KDA applies data-dependent output gating [100]:
yt =W o[Sigmoid(Wgxt)⊙RMSNorm( ˜ot)].(6)
2.1.2 Gated MLA
Multi-head Latent Attention (MLA), introduced in DeepSeek-V2 [28], compresses the key–value representation of each
token into a low-dimensional latent vectorct =W cxt. Instead of caching full head-specific keys and values, MLA
cachesct and reconstructs the content keys and values through learned up-projections during attention computation. This
factorization reduces the KV-cache footprint while retaining global token-to-token attention. MLA was subsequently
adopted by Kimi K2 and Kimi K2.5 [59, 60], and Kimi K3 retains it in the periodic global-attention layers.
Unlike Kimi K2 and Kimi K2.5, Kimi K3 follows the hybrid design of Kimi Linear [64] and applies No Position
Encoding (NoPE) to all MLA layers. Consequently, no explicit positional encoding is applied to their queries or keys.
The intervening KDA layers provide position-sensitive and recency-aware sequence mixing, while the MLA layers
provide unrestricted global content interaction. This separation also avoids modifying positional-encoding parameters
when extending the context length, such as retuning a RoPE frequency base or applying YaRN [93].
In addition, Kimi K3 augments MLA with an input-dependent, channel-wise full-rank output gate. Let ˜ot denote the
ungated MLA output at positiont; the gated output is
yt =W o[Sigmoid(Wgxt)⊙ ˜ot].(7)
5
===== PAGE 6 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
The gate projection Wg is full rank, matching the new parameterization used by KDA in Kimi K3. This gate allows
each token to modulate the channels read from global attention [100].
To correct the biased rounding error identified by [99] in flash attention, we keep the attention output in FP32 during
training. This choice doubles the on-chip footprint of the output tile; we therefore redesign the training kernel to overlap
it with the KV staging buffers instead of the query tile, freeing shared memory for a deeper KV pipeline and higher
training throughput.
2.2 Attention Residuals
Standard residual connections [44] compress all prior information into a single state hl over depth — a bottleneck
reminiscent of RNNs over time. For sequence modeling, the Transformer replaced recurrence with attention [10, 127],
allowing each position to selectively access all previous positions with data-dependent weights. Attention Residuals
(AttnRes) [58] applies the same methodology to depth: each layer selectively retrieves representations from all preceding
layers rather than accumulating them uniformly.
Full Attention ResidualsFor each layer l, we define a layer-specific learnable pseudo-queryql =w l∈R d and keys
and values
ki =v i =
h1 i= 0
fi(hi) 1≤i≤l−1 (8)
wherefi(hi) is the output of layeri andh1 is the token embedding. The attention weights follow a softmax kernel
ϕ(q,k) = exp
 
q⊤ RMSNorm(k)

[56, 148], where the RMSNorm prevents layers with large-magnitude outputs
from dominating the weights:
αi→l = ϕ(ql,ki)
Pl−1
j=0ϕ(ql,kj)
,h l =
l−1X
i=0
αi→l·vi.(9)
Since network depth is modest (L<100 ), theO(L2d) arithmetic of thisfullform is affordable; the practical overhead
is theO(Ld)memory (and cross-stage communication under pipeline parallelism) for keeping all layer outputs alive.
Block Attention ResidualsTo reduce this overhead, we partition the L layers intoN blocks ofS=L/N layers
each. Within block n (layer indicesBn), layer outputs are reduced to a single representation by summation, bn =P
j∈Bnfj(hj), with bi
n denoting the partial sum over the first i layers of the block; we set b0 =h 1 so the token
embedding is always included as a source. Across blocks, full attention is applied over only the N block-level
representations: for thei-th layer in blockn, the value matrix is
V=
[b0,b 1,...,b n−1]⊤ ifi= 1(first layer of blockn)
[b0,b 1,...,b n−1,bi−1
n ]⊤ ifi≥2(subsequent layers) (10)
with keys and attention weights following Eq. 8 and Eq. 9. The final output layer then aggregates all N block
representations. Under Block AttnRes, memory and communication overhead drop fromO(Ld) toO(Nd) , while this
block structure also bounds the inference-time state, enabling the parallel inter-block results to be better merged with
the sequential intra-block partial sums via online softmax [80], significantly reducing inference time cost.
Empirically,N≈8 recovers most of the benefit across model scales [58]; for Kimi K3, we partition its layers into 8
blocks with 12-layer size, giving a partial final block and 9 total blocks when counting the embedding layer.
2.3 Stable LatentMoE
Increasing both the expert pool and the number of active experts expands the space of expert specializations, but in a
conventional MoE each selected expert receives the fulld-dimensional token representation, so communication and
expert-weight traffic grow with the routing multiplicity. LatentMoE [32] makes this expansion affordable by separating
the full model width from the routed-expert width: shared experts retain a full-width path for common transformations,
whereas specialized routed experts operate in a compact latent space of widthℓ. This enables Kimi K3 to scale channel
mixing to 896 routed experts with 16 active experts per token, corresponding to a sparsity of 56.
This extreme sparsity amplifies two failure modes of the vanilla design. First, the routed path composes W↓, a gated
multi-branch expert feed-forward network, and W↑ into a chain of nearly four consecutive matrix multiplications. This
ill-conditioned structure, combined with the 2.8-trillion-parameter scale, produces exploding internal activations in the
routed branch. Second, balancing the load of nearly 103 experts exceeds the regime in which existing auxiliary-loss-free
6
===== PAGE 7 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Gate branch Up branch Curve
GLU [26]σ(x)x
x
f(x)
−10 50 1000
100
|f(x)|≤β 1β2 = 100
SwiGLU
SiTU-GLU GLU
SwiGLU [108]x·σ(x)x
SiTU-GLU β1 tanh

x
β1

·σ(x)β 2 tanh

x
β2

Figure 4: Gate and up branches of GLU, SwiGLU, and SiTU-GLU, together with their scalar responses, where σ denotes the
sigmoid function. Both branches receive the scalar inputx, and all curves share the domainx∈[−10,100] ; the inset magnifies the
near-origin region. SiTU-GLU, shown in red withβ1 = 4 andβ2 = 25, closely follows SwiGLU near the origin and approaches the
bound|f(x)|≤β 1β2 = 100for large positive inputs, whereas SwiGLU remains unbounded.
bias updates remain well behaved. Stable LatentMoE addresses these two failure modes with three components: an
RMSNorm before the up-projection and Sigmoid Tanh Unit GLU (SiTU-GLU) to suppress activation explosion, and
Quantile Balancing (QB) for load balancing.
As illustrated in Fig. 2, the layer follows the shared- and routed-expert organization of DeepSeekMoE [23]. Forx∈R d,
the shared experts processx directly, while the routed path projects it toz=W ↓x∈R ℓ, dispatchesz to the selected
experts, and maps their weighted aggregate back toRd throughW↑:
u=
X
i∈Tk(x)
piErouted
i (W↓x),
y=
NsX
j=1
Eshared
j (x) +W↑ RMSNorm(u).(11)
Here,u∈R ℓ is the aggregated routed representation,Eshared
j :R d→Rd andErouted
i :R ℓ→Rℓ are the shared and
routed expert feed-forward networks, andpi is the router weight defined by the Quantile Balancing rule below. Kimi
K3 fixes the number of full-width shared experts toNs = 2in every layer.
2.3.1 Normalized LatentMoE
The original LatentMoE directly applies W↑ to the aggregated routed representationu, whose scale can vary with the
selected experts and their routing weights. As shown in Eq. 11, Kimi K3 instead inserts RMSNorm [148] between
expert aggregation and the up-projection. This normalization reduces the sensitivity of the routed branch to scale
variation before it is combined with the full-width shared branch. Beyond stabilizing training, the additional RMSNorm
consistently improves validation loss and downstream benchmarks.
2.3.2 Sigmoid Tanh Unit GLU
Gated Linear Units (GLUs) modulate a linear value branch with a sigmoid-activated gate, computingSigmoid(Wgx)⊙
Wux [26]. SwiGLU replaces the sigmoid gate withSwish(x) =xSigmoid(x) and yields strong empirical performance
in Transformers [108]. SwiGLU has subsequently become a widely adopted FFN design in large language models,
while a complete account of its empirical effectiveness remains open.
However, both multiplicative factors in SwiGLU are unbounded, so coincident large coordinates can produce activation
outliers and increase overflow risk in low-precision arithmetic. The sigmoid gate of the original GLU avoids unbounded
gate growth, but it does not retain the approximately linear positive regime of Swish. This motivates an activation that
controls large-value growth while preserving the characteristic local and positive-side response of SwiGLU. Other
recent efforts have explored alternative parameterizations of this trade-off [52].
To satisfy these requirements, we propose Sigmoid Tanh Unit GLU (SiTU-GLU). SiTU-GLU applies the smooth cap
softcap(x,β) =βtanh(x/β)to the linear factor of the Swish gate and independently to the up branch:
SiTU-GLU(x) =

β1 tanh
Wgx
β1

⊙Sigmoid(Wgx)

⊙

β2 tanh
Wux
β2

,(12)
7
===== PAGE 8 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
(a) Imbalanced routing (b) Quantile Balancing (c) Balanced routing
E1
E2
E3
E4
t1
t2
t3
t4
t5
t6
t7
t8
E1 E2 E3 E4
t1
t2
t3
t4
t5
t6
t7
t8
E1
E2
E3
E4
t1
t2
t3
t4
t5
t6
t7
t8
Figure 5: Illustration of Quantile Balancing with m= 8 tokens,n= 4 routed experts, andk= 1 selected expert per token. (a)
Token-wise Top-k routing (tokens on the left, experts on the right) produces loads (4,3,1,0) ; darker circles indicate overheated
experts, whereas faded and dashed circles indicate underutilized and dying experts, respectively. (b) Each gray bar is the margin of
the currently biased score,si,j +b (t)
j −α (t)
i , so the row-wise maxima reproduce the routing in (a). The dashed red line in each
column is the bias adjustment b(t)
j −bb(t+1)
j , placed at the (q+1)-th largest margin so that exactlyq= 2 margins exceed it. The
marker ⋆ denotes the row-wise Top-k choice after subtracting the column adjustments, i.e., the routing in (c). (c) The retained
choices yield the balanced load(2,2,2,2); red edges denote assignments changed by QB.
For Kimi K3, we set the soft-cap hyperparameters toβ1 = 4 for the gate branch andβ2 = 25 for the up branch. The
scaled tanh is approximately linear near the origin and bounded at large magnitude, allowing SiTU-GLU to preserve
the local response of SwiGLU while controlling both factors in the product. Fig. 4 compares the branch definitions and
scalar responses of GLU, SwiGLU, and SiTU-GLU on a common slice.
§ B gives the local expansion, limiting case, formal output bound, and comparison with hard clamping.
2.3.3 Quantile Balancing
Unlike auxiliary-loss-based routing [33], Kimi K3 adopts auxiliary-loss-free routing [30]. Load balancing is imple-
mented by adding an expert-specific bias bj to the router score used for Top-k selection. For token xi, the router
computessi = Sigmoid(Wrxi)and applies
Ti = argtopk(si +b), p i,j = si,jP
r∈Tisi,r
, j∈T i.(13)
Becauseb is omitted from pi,j, it regulates dispatch without altering the mixture weights or the gradient-based
optimization of the router. The original method updatesb with the fixed-step ruleb(t+1)
j =b (t)
j +γsign( ¯ℓ−ℓ (t)
j ) [30],
for whichγ trades off slow adaptation against load oscillation. Maintaining balanced loads becomes more challenging
as LatentMoE increases the routed expert pool to 896 per layer. Imbalanced routing slows expert-parallel training and
may leave some experts poorly trained [48].
To address this limitation, we introduce Quantile Balancing (QB), which sets each expert bias from the router-score
quantile [113, 114] that matches its target load. Consider a training batch ofm tokens routed ton experts with Top-k
selection, so the target load is q:=mk/n tokens per expert. QB derives the next bias from a single forward pass.
Routing replaces the Top-k selection with Top-(k+1) on the biased scoresi +b (t): the firstk entries are the routes
actually taken, while the (k+1)-th entry is the cutoffα(t)
i that an expert must exceed to enter tokeni’s Top-k. Taking
the cutoff from Top-(k+1) routing avoids a separate token-side quantile. We then choose each expert bias so that expert
jreceives its target load: with the cutoffs fixed, the token count routed to expertjunder a candidate bias bb(t+1)
j is
mX
i=1
1
h
si,j +bb(t+1)
j >α (t)
i
i
,
which is monotonically decreasing in the threshold−bb(t+1)
j . Assuming no ties, setting this count toq makes−bb(t+1)
j
the (q+1)-th largest marginsi,j−α (t)
i , so that exactlyq margins stay above the threshold. Sinceq/m=k/n , this is
8
===== PAGE 9 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
the(1−k/n)-quantile of the margins across tokens, giving the QB update
bb(t+1)
j ←−quantile 1−k/n

s:,j−α (t)

,
b(t+1)←bb(t+1)−mean

bb(t+1)

1.(14)
The margins subtract the biased cutoffα(t)
i from the raw scoresi,j, so the old bias enters the update only through the
cutoffs, and the second line removes a common offset that leaves Top-k selection unchanged. For causality, the update
takes effect only in the next step [30], i.e., a batch is never routed with a bias derived from itself. Fig. 5 illustrates the
casem= 8 ,n= 4 , andk= 1 , where each expert receives the target loadq= 2 . The final bias is frozen at inference.
The balanced-assignment derivation is given in § C.
Histogram estimationAt scale, the quantile in Eq. 14 spans the full global batch, whose margins number in the
millions and are spread across ranks and accumulation steps, so gathering them for an exact quantile is not viable at
training time. We instead read each expert’s quantile from a histogram of its margins: a single all-reduce sums the
per-rank bin counts, and the quantile is recovered from the pooled counts. Because counts are additive, the histogram
represents the pooled global batch regardless of how tokens are sharded, so the estimate reflects the whole-batch
quantile up to the bin width, at a communication cost of only a few hundred bins per expert. This histogram estimator is
the method we use in practice; we give more detailed descriptions of it and its error bound in § D.
2.4 Native Vision
Kimi K3 is natively multimodal: text, images, and videos are processed by a single shared backbone within one
context, with no post-hoc modality-alignment stage. This design is the architectural foundation of the long-horizon,
vision-in-the-loop behavior described in §1. Rendered outputs and the code that produced them live in the same
token stream, the model can write code, inspect screenshots or video frames of the result, and iteratively refine visual
artifacts—user interfaces, graphics, video—with no cross-model hand-off.
MoonViT-V2A key departure from Kimi K2.5 is that we train Kimi K3 vision encoder,MoonViT-V2, entirely from
scratch with next-token prediction. Prior practice, including Kimi K2.5 itself, initializes the vision encoder from a
contrastively pre-trained model such as SigLIP, under the premise that pre-trained visual knowledge gives the model a
head start. We depart from this practice primarily for training stability. When a pre-trained encoder is attached to the
LLM, joint optimization becomes unstable: the SigLIP-initialized MoonViT-3D shows persistently higher gradient
norms with frequent spikes, while MoonViT-V2 remains stable throughout training (Fig. 6). Training with next-token
prediction also allows the encoder’s representations to be shaped directly by the language-modeling objective, rather
than by a contrastive loss that favors global semantics over fine-grained textual and structural cues. Notably, we find
MoonViT-V2 matches the SigLIP-initialized baseline across vision evaluations, indicating that contrastive pre-training
is unnecessary as an initialization for multimodal language models at scale.
7 10 15 20 25 30
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Training step (×103)
Vision-tower gradient norm
(a) Full training trajectory
MoonViT-3D (SigLIP init.)
MoonViT-V2 (from scratch)
14 14.5 15 15.5 16
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
(b) Zoomed view (14k–16k)
Figure 6: Vision-tower gradient norms in our pre-training ablations. Compared with the SigLIP-initialized MoonViT-3D, the
from-scratch MoonViT-V2 maintains lower gradient norms with fewer spikes, indicating more stable optimization.
9
===== PAGE 10 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
ArchitectureThis training recipe builds on a vision pathway that follows the overall design of Kimi K2.5 [60,
62]: visual inputs are first encoded by MoonViT-V2 and then mapped by a lightweight MLP projector into the LLM.
MoonViT-V2 is a 27-layer vision transformer with roughly 0.4B parameters that adopts RMSNorm and removes
all bias terms from its linear and attention projections, a design that further stabilizes the from-scratch optimization
above. Images and videos are processed with fully shared parameters, as in MoonViT-3D: attention is factorized into
intra-frame spatial and inter-frame temporal passes, and temporal pooling further compresses tokens along the time
dimension. Before projection, a pixel-shuffle operation with 2×2 downsampling reduces the number of visual tokens
by a factor of four, keeping inputs of up to3584×3584pixels affordable within the 1M-token context.
2.5 Per-Head Muon
Following Kimi K2, Kimi K3 adopts Muon [54] as the optimizer for its matrix parameters. For attention projections,
we further refine it into a per-head variant [112, 147]: instead of applying Newton–Schulz orthogonalization to the full
Q,K, andV projection matrices, we partition their momentum matrices along the head dimension and orthogonalize
each head’s block separately. The intuition is that full-matrix orthogonalization treats all heads as a single coupled
block, so heads with larger gradient or momentum scales dominate the shared update direction, while smaller-scale
heads receive insufficiently normalized updates; per-head orthogonalization equalizes the update scale across heads.
In practice, this design yields more balanced learning dynamics across heads and improves training stability at larger
scales. It also slightly reduces optimizer overhead, as Newton–Schulz iterations on tall per-head blocks are cheaper
than on the full projection matrix.
3 Pre-Training
3.1 Pre-Training Data
Kimi K3 is pre-trained on a curated corpus spanning four primary text domains—Web Text, Code, Mathematics,
and Knowledge—together with a large-scale vision corpus. The vision data covers captions, interleaved image–text
documents, OCR, perception, video, and visual coding data. Our data pipelines build on those developed for Kimi
K2 [59] and refined in Kimi K2.5 [60].
Text dataEach domain is filtered by a combination of rule-based heuristics, classifier-based quality scoring, and
deduplication, with domain-specific sampling rates determined by ablation studies on smaller models. Following the
rephrasing recipe of Kimi K2 [59], we rephrase knowledge and mathematics corpora with style and perspective-diverse
prompting, chunk-wise autoregressive generation, and fidelity verification against the source documents.
Vision dataThe vision corpus follows the taxonomy of Kimi K2.5 [60], combining open-source collections with
in-house pipelines for filtering, synthesis, and deduplication. During training, coordinate supervision is provided in both
absolute and normalized ([0,1]) formats, enabling precise and resolution-robust localization. In addition to classical
text-captioned images, we substantially scale up programmatic multimodal data, coupling code snippets with their
rendered visuals across domain-specific formats including SVG, 3D assets, Webpage, Game, and CAD schematics.
3.2 Scaling Law
Taken together, the architectural, data, and training improvements described in the previous sections define our new
model family. Since these changes also alter the optimal training regime, we conduct dedicated scaling-law studies to
retune key hyperparameters, including the batch size, learning rate, tokens-per-parameter ratio (TPP) and the model
shape. Evaluated on held-out OOD validation data, the scaling law curves in (Fig. 7) show that these improvements
collectively deliver an approximately 2.5× gain in overall scaling efficiency over Kimi K2. Table 1 provides a detailed
architectural comparison between Kimi K2 and Kimi K3, highlighting the structural changes that contribute to this
improvement.
Our scaling-law study consistently favors cosine decay over Warmup Stable Decay (WSD) [47], leading us to adopt
cosine decay as the default learning rate schedule. We compare cosine decay and WSD under a fixed minimum learning
rate. Although prior work has reported that WSD can match or even outperform cosine decay, we observe that the two
schedules exhibit markedly different optimal hyperparameters. Even under the same model size and training-token
budget, their optimal peak learning rates and batch sizes differ substantially. As a result, comparing the two schedules
using a shared set of hyperparameters may unfairly favor one simply because those hyperparameters are better aligned
with it. To ensure a fair comparison, we conduct an independent scaling-law search for each schedule. Under their
respective optimal hyperparameter settings, cosine decay consistently achieves a lower final loss than WSD.
10
===== PAGE 11 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
1020 1021
2.5×
FLOPs
Validation Loss
Kimi K2
Kimi K3
Figure 7: Fitted scaling-law curves for Kimi K2 and Kimi K3. Kimi K3 achieves2.5×gain in scaling efficiency over Kimi K2.
Table 1: Architectural comparison between Kimi K2 and Kimi K3.
Kimi K2 Kimi K3∆
Architecture MoE MoE –
#Layers 61 93↑52%
Total Parameters 1.04T 2.78T↑167%
Activated Parameters 32.6B 104.2B↑220%
Hidden Dimension 7,168 7,168=
Latent MoE Dimension – 3584 (0.5×) –
MoE Hidden Dimension per Expert 2,048 3,072↑50%
Routed Experts 384 896↑133%
Experts Active per Token 8 16↑100%
Shared Experts 1 2↑100%
Attention Heads 64 96↑50%
Number of Dense Layers 1 1=
V ocabulary Size 160K 160K=
Training Context Length 128K 1M8×
Attention Mechanism MLA Hybrid KDA–MLA –
Activation Function SwiGLU SiTU-GLU –
Attention-Layer Composition 61 MLA 69 KDA + 24 MLA –
Number of MTP Layers 1 layer 1 layer=
Total Parameters of ViT - 401M -
#ViT Layers - 27 layers -
Patch Size of ViT - 14 -
#Attention Heads of ViT - 12 -
3.3 Training Recipe
Kimi K3 adopts a native multimodal training strategy in which language and vision are jointly optimized from the start
of training, rather than grafting a vision encoder onto a pre-trained language model through a post-hoc alignment stage.
Under this paradigm, visual and textual tokens are interleaved within a single next-token prediction objective, enabling
the shared backbone to learn unified multimodal representations from the outset.
We optimize the model using the Per-Head Muon optimizer (§ 2.5) together with the weight-clipping mechanism
introduced in Kimi K2, while adopting QB (§ 2.3.3) for MoE load balancing. We use a cosine learning rate schedule
with a1%linear warmup. Weight decay is set to0.1throughout.
11
===== PAGE 12 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Our pre-training begins with a context length of 8k tokens, which is later extended to 64k tokens in a subsequent
training phase.
3.4 Long-Context Extension
Positional encodingKimi K3 uses no explicit positional embedding (NoPE), and instead encodes positional informa-
tion implicitly through the recurrent gating and decay mechanism of KDA. As a result, the model extrapolates directly
to 1M-token contexts without any positional-encoding modification, such as RoPE rescaling or interpolation [93].
Long-context dataLong documents and videos from natural sources contain a substantial amount of low-quality
content, including near-duplicates, binary blobs, truncated files, video clips, and invalid machine-generated logs. We
therefore process them through a dedicated cleaning pipeline that combines exact and fuzzy deduplication, supplemented
by perceptual hashing over frames for video, together with heuristic and classifier-based quality filtering, and structural
validation. Because genuinely long and coherent documents and videos are scarce relative to short text, we upsample
them so that the long-context distribution is not overwhelmed by short sequences during cooldown. Length alone,
however, does not confer long-range capability. To address this, we synthesize additional long-context data by carefully
permuting and concatenating multimodal documents and sub-tasks, so that the embedded tasks can be solved only by
attending to information scattered across the full 1M-token context. This trains the attention mechanism at the intended
scale and prevents it from degenerating into local patterns.
Progressive context extensionKimi K3 supports a context window of up to 1 million tokens. We achieve this
through extending the context window progressively as training proceeds, following a four-stage curriculum. The
window grows from 8K to 64K tokens during pre-training, and from 256K to 1M tokens during the cooldown phase.
Concentrating the costly long-sequence computation within a small fraction of the overall training budget keeps the
curriculum economical while still allowing the model to adapt gradually to increasingly long-range dependencies. The
sequence-dimension partitioning that makes million-token training tractable for the KDA layers is described in §5.1.2.
4 Post-Training
4.1 Method
Our post-training pipeline follows a three-stage paradigm: initializing baseline agent capabilities via supervised fine-
tuning (SFT), developing specialized domain experts at varying reasoning effort via Reinforcement Learning (RL), and
consolidating these domain-specific policies into a single model using Multi-Teacher On-Policy Distillation (MOPD).
4.1.1 Supervised Fine-Tuning
The SFT stage establishes a high-quality cold-start policy for the subsequent RL stage. Building on the SFT pipeline
of previous Kimi models [59, 60], we expand the SFT dataset for Kimi K3, substantially broadening its coverage
of complex agentic tasks. Specifically, we synthesize data trajectories using domain-specialized models from the
prior Kimi series, followed by multi-stage verification and human-in-the-loop annotation. To represent these complex
agentic trajectories consistently, we serialize all data with our XTML-based chat template (eXtensible Token Markup
Language; see § F for details). Collectively, these steps yield a large-scale instruction dataset that endows Kimi K3 with
adaptive reasoning, precise tool calling, and robust execution in long-horizon agentic scenarios. In addition, we apply
quantization-aware training (QAT) from the SFT stage onward, with MXFP4 weights and MXFP8 activations (§ 4.1.4).
4.1.2 Reinforcement Learning
While SFT provides a solid cold-start foundation, RL is critical to unlocking higher-order reasoning and execution
capabilities. Rather than training specialized RL models for individual tasks, we scale RL across three broad domains,
each encompassing a wide spectrum of sub-tasks, and train a single expert for each domain at every reasoning effort
level: (i)general tasks, spanning general experience, vision, reasoning, faithfulness, search capabilities, and knowledge
work tasks; (ii)general agents, spanning long-horizon assistant tasks, deep research, and paragraph-level writing; and
(iii)coding agents, spanning software engineering (SWE), coding experience, kernel tasks, and web development. As
shown in Figure 8, scaling RL FLOPs consistently improves a variety of capabilities across knowledge, reasoning, vision,
general agent, and coding. Crossing these three domain experts with three reasoning effort levels in{low,high,max}
yields a total of nine expert models.
12
===== PAGE 13 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Avg. stepsAvg. steps
RL FLOPs
Score (%)
Coding Experience
Score
Avg. steps
RL FLOPs
General Tool Use
RL FLOPs
Web Development
RL FLOPs
Agentic Search
RL FLOPs
Score (%)
Professional Workflows
RL FLOPs
Office Deliverables
RL FLOPs
Agentic Chart Understanding
RL FLOPs
Agentic Visual Puzzles
Figure 8: Scores and the average assistant steps across a variety of public and in-house evaluations during RL. By scaling RL FLOPs,
tool-call steps scale up consistently, accompanied by a comprehensive improvement in the model’s overall capability.
AlgorithmTo mitigate the long-tail latency that intensifies in long-horizon tasks, we extend thepartial rolloutscheme
from our synchronous RL framework [120, 60]. During the rollout phase of each iteration, we sampleKcompletions
for each ofN prompts, maintaining an active workload ofN×K trajectories. Rather than waiting for all rollouts to
terminate, the generation phase pauses as soon as a fractionλ∈(0,1) of trajectories completes (i.e.,λNK ), allowing
policy optimization to proceed without execution stragglers. Paused rollouts are enqueued and prioritized for resumption
at the start of the next iteration, powered by our sandbox infrastructure (§ 5.3.2). Once allK responses for a prompt
complete, they are immediately dispatched for policy optimization, which follows the algorithm in Kimi K2.5 [60].
Under our partial rollout scheme, an individual long-horizon trajectory naturally spans multiple iterations, introducing
data staleness that threatens training stability. Our policy optimization algorithm inherently tolerates such an extreme
off-policy regime through a per-token regularization. By constraining policy updates within a localized neighborhood,
this regularization enables the algorithm to robustly handle highly stale data and sustains training stability.
Reasoning Effort RLTo fine-tune reasoning effort while maximizing token efficiency, we implement a per-problem
budget control mechanism during RL [60]. We associate each problemx with an initial token budgetb0(x) estimated
from the cold-start model, and override the task reward with−1 for trajectories whose total token budgetT(y) exceeds
a scaled thresholdτ·b 0(x). For general tasks,T(y) measures the number of thinking tokens, whereas for agentic tasks,
T(y) accounts for the cumulative output tokens, including both reasoning traces and tool-call arguments. Training
follows a stage-wise curriculum over the budget multiplierτ. We first train amax-budgetvariant with a relatively large
τ, while still capping the maximum budget to suppress excessive overthinking. We then annealτ to smaller values to
obtain thehigh- andlow-effort expert models. The adjustment of τ is configured per domain under human-in-the-loop
guidance. Trajectories produced by the resulting experts at all reasoning levels are jointly collected for supervised
fine-tuning and multi-teacher on-policy distillation.
Agentic Generative Reward ModelFor non-verifiable general tasks, we adopt an Agentic Generative Reward Model
(GRM), retaining the tournament-style group reward with binary comparisons as in Kimi K2.5 [59, 60]. Beyond generic
agentic capabilities for enhanced judgment, the agentic judge is required to follow a mandatory protocol: (1) read the
outcome, product, or text output; (2) generate a rubric; (3) score each candidate against the rubric; and (4) record the
rubric-assigned scores in a scorepad. To mitigate reward hacking toward increasingly verbose outputs, we apply a
budget-based verbosity control analogous to the reasoning-effort control above: given an initial verbosityℓ0 estimated
from the cold-start model and a multiplierσ, a candidate whose output length exceedsσ·ℓ 0 automatically loses the
binary comparison.
4.1.3 Multi-Teacher On-Policy Distillation
We adopt Multi-Teacher On-Policy Distillation (MOPD) to consolidate these domain-specialized capabilities across
varying reasoning efforts into a unified model [76, 136, 29]. During training, for a given domain d and a sampled
reasoning effort levele∈{low,high,max} , optimization is guided by the corresponding teacher modelπ(d,e)
teacher among
the nine experts. Given an input queryx and the prefix responsey<t, the per-token OPD reward evaluated onyt between
13
===== PAGE 14 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
the teacherπ (d,e)
teacher and the studentπθ is defined as:
rd
opd(yt|e,x,y <t) = clip
 
sg
 
logπ(d,e)
teacher(yt|x,y <t)
πθ(yt|e,x,y <t)
!
,−R max,R max
!
,(15)
where sg(·) denotes the stop-gradient operator, andRmax >0 is a clipping threshold to constrain extreme advantage
signals, thereby stabilizing RL training. This dense reward signal seamlessly integrates into our RL framework,
naturally enabling infrastructure-level optimizations such as partial rollout training for long-horizon tasks. While
we also experimented with more fine-grained top-k distillation objectives, we observed no clear advantage in either
convergence speed or final performance in our setting.
4.1.4 Deployment-Aware Post-Training
MXFP4 Quantization-Aware Post-TrainingTo reduce memory footprint and serving cost at deployment, we
quantize the MoE expert weights — which dominate the model’s parameter memory — to MXFP4 [104], with
activations computed in MXFP8, while all non-expert components (attention projections, latent MoE projections, shared
experts, and MoE routers) remain in higher precision. We perform quantization-aware training (QAT) [50] throughout
the entire post-training stage, covering both SFT and RL, so that the model adapts to quantization-induced precision
loss. During RL, rollout and training share the same quantization scheme — eliminating the train–inference mismatch.
Draft Model Fine-TuningOptimizing inference efficiency is crucial for serving complex, long-horizon agentic
models. Kimi K3 is pre-trained with a multi-token-prediction (MTP) layer that mirrors the structure of a backbone
block. As the draft model of EAGLE-3 [72] comprises a single decoder layer whose structure matches the MTP layer,
we fine-tune the pre-trained MTP layer into an EAGLE-3-style draft model, with the target model frozen and only the
draft layer and its feature-fusion projection updated. Following the training-time test protocol of EAGLE-3, the draft
is unrolled for seven steps during training; beyond the first step, where the target-side features of the newest position
are unavailable, the draft consumes its own outputs from earlier steps, mirroring the recurrent drafting procedure at
inference.
The draft input fuses low-, mid-, and high-level features of the target model, taken from the outputs of the 1st, 4th,
and final AttnRes blocks, respectively (§ 2.2). These features are concatenated and projected to the hidden size by
a bias-free matrixWE3, initialized as [0 0I] so that the fused representation coincides at initialization with the
high-level featurehh — the input on which the MTP layer was pre-trained — and gradually learns to incorporate the
low- and mid-level features during fine-tuning.
The speedup of speculative decoding is governed by the per-token acceptance rateP
x∈V min(p(x),q(x)) under lossless
speculative sampling, wherep andq denote the next-token distributions of the target and draft models. Since minimizing
the conventional KL-divergence surrogate does not guarantee maximizing this rate for a capacity-limited draft model,
we directly optimize the likelihood-based LK loss [105], the negative logarithm of the acceptance rate itself,
LLK =−log
X
x∈V
min(p(x),q(x)),(16)
withp andq evaluated at temperature 1 and no auxiliary ground-truth cross-entropy term. Draft fine-tuning follows the
post-training QAT configuration (§ 4.1.4), with MoE expert weights in MXFP4 and their input activations in MXFP8,
while non-expert modules remain in higher precision.
4.2 RL Task Synthesis and Agentic Environments
The effectiveness of our RL framework relies heavily on rich, diverse, and robustly verifiable environments. To support
scalable training across complex long-horizon tasks, we design a series of specialized white-box environments and task
synthesis paradigms.
4.2.1 Unified White-Box RL Environment
Training with a single fixed agent harness can cause a model to overfit to a particular tool schema, system prompt, context
management mechanism, or interaction protocol. To address this, we develop a unified white-box RL environment
that represents an agent harness as a collection of configurable, composable modules, including tool interfaces, system
prompts, context management strategies, skills, memories, subagents, and other components. Composing these modules
through configuration, the environment can instantiate mainstream harnesses such as Kimi Code [57], Claude Code [15],
Codex [20], OpenClaw [87], and Hermes [45], as well as entirely new ones. During RL training, we dynamically
14
===== PAGE 15 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
construct different harness configurations for different task groups, exposing Kimi K3 to diverse combinations of these
modules rather than the conventions of any single harness. The same abstraction also readily supports RL across various
task domains, providing a scalable foundation for training more general-purpose agents.
4.2.2 Knowledge-Graph-Guided Task Synthesis
Motivation and overviewThe quality and diversity of post-training tasks are largely determined by their source
materials. Retrieval guided by fine-grained concepts surfaces specialized and underrepresented knowledge, while
sampling across diverse concepts broadens domain coverage. To control both granularity and coverage at scale, we
build a self-evolving, hierarchically organized knowledge graph that agents continuously expand through web-scale
exploration across knowledge-intensive and coding domains. Figure 9 illustrates the task synthesis pipeline.
CS/AI
Coding
··· and more
Chemistry
Physics
Math
Humanities
Biomedicine
more layers
Keyword Set
sample related keys jointly
RoPE GPU kernel ···
Material Retrieval
fetch public materials from the internet
···
Academic article
Blog post
Code repo
Task Synthesis
choose one task type per instance
Coding
Knowledge
Vision
··· and more
Figure 9: Overview of knowledge-graph-guided task synthesis. The hierarchically organized knowledge graph represents concepts at
multiple levels, ranging from broad domains to fine-grained concepts. Related nodes are sampled to form a keyword set that guides
the retrieval of publicly available source materials. For each synthesis instance, the system selects a task type and uses the retrieved
materials to synthesize a corresponding task.
Agentic knowledge graph constructionWe construct the knowledge graph as a directed acyclic graph through
recursive, agent-driven expansion. The expansion process begins with a predefined set of coarse-grained seed nodes.
An agent instance is then assigned to each node and performs multiple web searches to investigate the corresponding
concept. Before adding new nodes, the agent explores the existing graph to identify equivalent or related concepts,
reuse existing nodes where appropriate, and minimize duplication. Edges are always directed from the coarser concept
to the finer one, regardless of which endpoint the agent discovers first. Newly added nodes are subsequently assigned to
agents for further exploration. A branch stops expanding when the assigned agent determines that the current concept is
sufficiently atomic.
Material retrieval and task synthesisTo target a desired distribution across domains and task types, the system
samples nodes at varying levels of granularity, either individually or in related combinations. Keywords derived from
the sampled nodes are combined with contextual information from their ancestors in the knowledge graph to formulate
web queries. The retrieved real-world materials are assembled so that a synthesis agent produces training tasks of
various task types.
4.2.3 Verifiable Problems in Agentic Environments
We train Kimi K3 on verifiable problems in agentic environments; representative examples include multi-step complex
information searching, where the model plans its research, gathers evidence from the web step by step, and produces
15
===== PAGE 16 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
a verifiable answer; the real day-to-day work of professionals, such as investment banking, data analysis, and legal
practice, where the model decomposes a complex request, operates domain tools in a sandbox, and completes a
deliverable over dozens to hundreds of steps; and multi-step verifiable visual reasoning over STEM problems, visual
puzzles, and chart understanding. Each visual-reasoning trajectory is generated in an agent environment equipped with
a Python interpreter in an isolated sandbox: the model iteratively writes and executes code to crop, zoom, or transform
the input image, perform precise computation, or verify intermediate results, and receives the execution outputs —
including generated images — as new observations over multiple interaction steps. As the model learns to perform more
image operations and collect more observations, its performance on complex visual reasoning tasks steadily improves.
4.2.4 Kernel Optimization Tasks
To strengthen Kimi K3’s GPU kernel optimization capabilities, we build a large-scale suite of kernel tasks ranging from
single-operator kernels to fused mega-kernels, sourced from high-quality GitHub repositories such as Flash Linear
Attention [141]. The suite spans diverse GPU programming approaches, such as CUDA, Triton, CuTe DSL, Gluon,
ThunderKittens [111], and TileLang [131], and covers widely used GPU architectures and numerical formats including
BF16, FP8, and FP4. Rewards evaluate both correctness and performance: each kernel provides a PyTorch reference
implementation, and solutions exceeding a predefined numerical error threshold receive zero reward. Performance is
scored against an expert implementation, where matching it yields a reward of 0.5 and approaching the hardware roofline
increases the reward toward 1. To ensure that rewards reflect genuine optimization, we develop a hacking-detection
system that penalizes reward-hacking strategies such as CUDA graph replay, input caching, and precision reduction, and
we continuously extend it with new safeguards as new hacking strategies are observed during Kimi K3’s development.
4.2.5 Personal Assistant Tasks
For long-horizon personal assistant tasks, we develop realistic mock implementations of widely used applications, such
as Gmail, Notion, Slack, and Canvas. They preserve the core semantics of their real-world counterparts while enabling
reproducible, large-scale interaction without external APIs or rate limits. Building on these mock applications, we
design complex tasks inspired by real-world professional workflows in scenarios like human resources, legal services,
and finance. In each task, the agent operates in a persistent, evolving environment over multiple simulated days and
encounters dozens of interdependent events distributed across applications. A single rollout may involve up to thousands
of tool calls and millions of context tokens. Each event carries its own evaluation criterion, assessed by deterministic
rules or LLM-based evaluators. The initial workspace is constructed by agents that autonomously search the web for
reference materials and transform them into a coherent, task-relevant environment. We also extend our RL framework
to support such living environments, modeling complex event streams and the induced world-state transitions.
4.2.6 Autonomous Execution Tasks
We introduce Autonomous Execution Tasks (AET), an environment paradigm that trains long-horizon agent intelligence
through verify-in-the-loop optimization. Each task specifies an initial state, a constrained goal, a tool-based action space,
execution budgets, and an independent verifier. Agents see only the objective, context, constraints, and verification
interfaces, without reference trajectories or predefined procedures, and must autonomously perform task decomposition,
tool selection, planning, error recovery, and termination. Rewards are grounded in the verifier’s evaluation of the final
environment state rather than the agent’s self-reported completion. We design multiple types of verifiers that support
diverse environments, including black-box system replication (Figure 10), quantitative factor discovery, and tax auditing.
In each environment, agents iteratively submit solutions, receive verifier feedback, and refine their strategies, training
a general loop of hypothesizing, acting, analyzing feedback, and adapting. Reward hacking is mitigated by isolating
agents from verifiers, pairing public verifiers that offer diagnostic feedback with hidden verifiers that evaluate held-out
scenarios, and applying penalty-based rewards under limited submission budgets.
4.2.7 Web Development Tasks
We construct a diverse suite of expert-curated web development tasks covering typical scenarios. Inputs range from
one-line scene descriptions to multi-paragraph specifications; artifacts span websites, interactive games, 3D/WebGL
scenes, data visualization, SVGs, and full-stack applications. Every task runs in a containerized sandbox and is rolled
out under diverse agent scaffolds rather than a single fixed harness, to promote cross-scaffold generalization. Rewards
consist of two components: deterministic checks and model judging by an internal reward model. Deterministic checks
functionally test application behavior, and score structural and pixel-level similarity for tasks that replicate a reference.
The reward is zeroed when a project fails to build, runs with errors, or fakes rather than implements the artifact. Model
judging uses other models to perform source code inspection or to look at and interact with the output artifact.
16
===== PAGE 17 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
0 25 50 75 100
0
25
50
75
100
Normalized executor tool-call progress (%)
Completion curve (%)
Camera Repair Management System Replication
Kimi K3 (1.000)
Opus 4.8 (0.918)
GPT-5.5 (0.893)
Kimi K2.6 (0.560)
Figure 10: Completion curves on Camera Repair Management System, a black-box system replication task in which the agent
reconstructs a hidden 3D-camera repair system as a web application through oracle queries. Completion denotes verifier-assessed
task progress.
5 Infrastructure
Kimi K3 combines three system challenges rarely encountered in a single model: hybrid KDA attention, 3T-class
sparse multimodal training and inference, and million-token agentic workloads. Our infrastructure is co-designed with
these challenges across the model lifecycle. At the architecture level, high-performance KDA kernels and Context
Parallelism make the recurrent formulation efficient within and across devices, in both training and inference. During
pretraining, balanced expert execution, reduced memory footprint, and communication-overlapped scheduling sustain
high utilization at scale. During 1M-token agentic RL, hierarchical state management and resumable sandbox execution
preserve long trajectories across iterations. Finally, state-aware KDA prefix caching, specialized inference kernels, and
cache- and budget-aware scheduling translate these efficiencies into predictable production serving.
5.1 Algorithm-System Co-Design for KDA
KDA replaces the growing key–value cache of softmax attention with a fixed-size recurrent stateS∈R dk×dv (§2.1.1),
whose serial update poses challenges in parallel execution, in exchange for a fixed-size state that is cheap to transfer
and reuse. The designs below address the first property and exploit the second at two levels of execution, with fused
kernels within a device and KDA Context Parallelism across devices.
5.1.1 KDA Kernels across Regimes
The serial dependence of the KDA state is at odds with the GPU’s preference for wide, uniform parallelism, and it
manifests as a different bottleneck in each execution regime. We design a dedicated kernel for each regime.
Chunkwise kernel for training and prefillThe chunkwise form of KDA is parallel within each chunk but serial
across chunks, since the recurrent state must propagate from chunk to chunk. Executed naively, these two phases
alternate, leaving the SMs idle during the serial propagation. We therefore develop FlashKDA [14], a CUTLASS-based
chunkwise kernel that overlaps intra-chunk computation with cross-chunk state propagation. The kernel decomposes
the work into token-parallel stages and a head-parallel recurrence, each scheduled and tuned independently, and
substantially outperforms the Triton reference implementation. FlashKDA serves both training and inference prefill and
is auto-dispatched as a backend of flash-linear-attention [141].
Intra-device context parallelism for long-context prefillTensor parallelism partitions heads across devices but
never shortens the recurrence, so under pure TP deployment, prefilling an ultra-long sequence leaves most SMs idle
when each rank holds only a few heads. The key observation is that the state transition of each segment can be evaluated
17
===== PAGE 18 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
independently of the incoming state and composed exactly afterward. An automatic SM-level context-parallel (CP)
planner [144, 141] therefore partitions the sequence across the SMs of a single rank, evaluates the segment transitions
in parallel, and merges them to recover each segment’s exact initial state. In contrast to the cross-device KCP of §5.1.2,
this parallelism is entirely intra-device and incurs no cross-device communication.
KDA decoding presents challenges distinct from those encountered during training and prefill. We discuss these
challenges in detail in §5.4.2.
5.1.2 KDA Context Parallelism
The communication overhead of context parallelism differs fundamentally between softmax and linear attention.
Softmax attention requires ranks to exchange key–value blocks whose size grows with the sequence length [73]. Linear
attention instead carries the preceding context in a fixed-size recurrent stateS∈R dk×dv. Prior context-parallel methods
exploit the additive recurrence of vanilla linear attention by computing, on each rank, the state that the local tokens
generate from S=0 and summing these local states over the preceding ranks to recover the incoming state [116, 115].
This direct summation, however, is insufficient for KDA. Recall from Eq. 1 that KDA updates its state as St =
MtSt−1 +βtktv⊤
t , where Mt :=
 
I−β tktk⊤
t

Diag(αt). KDA’s delta rule applies the token-dependent matrixMt
to the incoming state before adding the current write. Consequently, the effect of a local sequence segment depends on
the state entering that segment and cannot be determined from the state computed withS=0alone.
To preserve this dependence, we introduce KDA Context Parallelism (KCP), which decomposes the effect of each
segment into two locally computable quantities, a cumulative transition acting on the incoming state and a state
generated locally from zero. Following the chunkwise notation of §2.1.1, we write St
[i] for the recurrent state within the
segment of ranki aftert local tokens, so that STi
[i] denotes the state leaving ranki and entering ranki+ 1 . We write
eSt
[i] for the state of the same recurrence started instead from S=0 . For an arbitrary state entering the (i+ 1) -th ofP
context-parallel ranks, the state aftertlocal tokens is
Mt←1
[i+1] :=
tY
r←1
Mr∈R dk×dk,S t
[i+1] =eSt
[i+1] +Mt←1
[i+1]STi
[i]
=eSt
[i+1] +Mt←1
[i+1]
iX
j=1
 iY
l←j+1
MTl←1
[l]

eSTj
[j]∈R dk×dv.
(17)
=Q
r
 
− ×
 !
= + P
j
Mt←1
[i+1] I−β rkrk⊤
r Diag(αr) St
[i+1] eSt
[i+1] Mt←1
[i+1]
Q
l M
Tl←1
[l]
eS
Tj
[j]
where Mt←1
[i+1] denotes the cumulative transition of the firstt local tokens. The first term contains the state generated by
the local tokens, whereas the second term propagates the context from preceding ranks through the local KDA updates.
Att=T i+1, both quantities MTi+1←1
[i+1] andeSTi+1
[i+1] can be computed using only the local tokens, before STi
[i] is available,
and are the fragments each rank exchanges with the others.
The summation in Eq. 17 shows that every state is composed purely from locally computed fragments. These rank-level
updates compose associatively, so the incoming state of each rank can be recovered by a prefix scan [78]. Each rank first
computes MTi←1
[i] andeSTi
[i] locally, then exchanges both tensors with one all-gather [141].2 After the all-gather,
ranki+ 1 reconstructs STi
[i] by processing preceding fragments of the same document in order, starting from S=0
and applying S←M Tj←1
[j] S+ eSTj
[j] at each fragment. Therefore, KCP requires only a fixed-size all-gather for
recurrent-state synchronization and achieves linear compute scaling.
5.2 Infra for 3T-class Pre-Training
Kimi K3 pre-training combines Pipeline Parallelism (PP) with virtual stages (VP) [49, 82], Expert Parallelism (EP) [67],
ZeRO-1 Data Parallelism [101], Pipeline ZeRO-2 gradient sharding [147], and Context Parallelism (CP, §5.1.2) [51].
2The construction builds on DeltaNet context parallelism [144]. The KDA implementation is available in FLA PR #691.
18
===== PAGE 19 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 31 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2 3
5 64
4 5 6
5 64
5 64
4 5 6 5 64 5 64
5 64
5 64
4 5 6
4 5 6
5 64
5 64
5 64
5 64
6
5 6
5 64
54
4
6
5 6
5 64
54
4
6
5 6
5 64
54
4
1
2
3
4
5 6
4
5
6
1
2 3
DL
Forward pass Backward pass Remote Offload/Onload SE1 SE2 Shared Expert Stage1
& Stage2 fwd/bwd
EP-D EP-C EP-C EP-D EP dispatch &
combine fwd/bwdSE2SE1Remote offload
from PP0 to PP2
EP-DR EP dispatch recompute
     Local Activation Offload
                  EP Comm
   Remote Activation Offload
              NCCL Comm
                Computation SE2
EP-C
MLP
EP-DR
WGrad SE1 Attn
EP-DEP-C
Onload
Attn
EP-D
SE1 MLP SE2
Offload
reduce grad (reduce_scatter + onload + add + offload)
ViT bwd
reduce grad
DataLoader ViT fwd
gather paramgather param
Figure 11: Computation, communication and offloading overlapped in different PP phases.
The MoE layers employ shared experts replicated across EP ranks, and the all-to-all communication for expert dispatch
and combine is overlapped with computation to hide its latency.
Natively multimodal pre-training at the 3T-class poses three critical problems: (i) token loads are imbalanced across
EP ranks; (ii) activations, gradients, and optimizer states exceed the memory budget; and (iii) the vision encoder’s
highly variable computation is exposed on the critical path. The following subsections address these problems in turn:
perfectly balanced expert-parallel MoE training (§5.2.1), memory-efficient training (§5.2.2), and multimodal encoder
optimization (§5.2.3). Fig. 11 illustrates the resulting execution schedule.
5.2.1 Perfectly Balanced Expert-Parallel MoE Training
In conventional EP schemes, token loads are imbalanced across ranks. The resulting computational imbalance
degrades training throughput, and the dynamically varying shapes of routed-expert activations cause substantial memory
fragmentation. We therefore propose MoonEP 3, an EP scheme that achieves perfect load balance with dynamic
redundant experts. MoonEP preserves the overall computation flow of conventional schemes such as DeepEP [149]
and additionally introduces online planning and migration of redundant experts. In the forward pass, we plan the
redundant experts from the router outputs of the current micro-batch and layer and prefetch them before the routed-
expert computation. In the backward pass, we stage their gradients in a local reduce buffer and, once the computation
completes, reduce them back to the gradient buffers of their home ranks.
Perfect balance with bounded redundant expertsMoonEP requires every rank to receive exactly S×K tokens,
whereS is the sequence length andK is the number of experts selected per token, so that all ranks perform identical
amounts of computation. The key question is how many redundant experts suffice to guarantee such a balance. LetE
be the number of experts andR the EP size. We prove that a balanced plan always exists with at mostE/R redundant
experts per rank and that this bound is essentially tight (§ E). ReservingE/R redundant-expert slots per rank therefore
guarantees that planning always admits a feasible solution, so training is never interrupted. In contrast, prior work such
as ECHO [139] and UltraEP [134] presets the number of redundant experts or imposes a per-rank token cap. Training is
then forced to stop whenever no feasible plan exists within the cap, and the cap itself requires manual tuning while still
leaving residual imbalance.
Online planningComputing the exact optimum at every training step is prohibitively expensive. We therefore
compute exact solutions offline with integer linear programming (ILP) for representative cases as references and design
a GPU planning kernel that is near-optimal, incurs negligible overhead, and always respects theE/Rupper bound.
Zero-copy communicationPerfect balance also simplifies the communication path. We implement a fused per-
mute/unpermute operator in which the planning kernel precomputes the destination of every token, so tokens are sent
directly to their expert-grouped positions on remote ranks, and views of the communication buffer are returned directly
to the computation, eliminating intermediate copies. Under worst-case imbalance, supporting the same copy-free data
path in DeepEP requires a communication buffer of sizeS×K×R , whereas MoonEP requires only a fixedS×K
buffer owing to the perfect balance.
Sync-free execution with static shapesIn conventional MoE implementations, the per-expert token counts vary
across steps and layers, and the host must synchronize with the device at every layer to obtain the actual computation
3https://github.com/MoonshotAI/MoonEP
19
===== PAGE 20 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
shapes before launching the expert computation, stalling the pipeline between layers. With perfect balance, every
rank receives exactlyS×K tokens and the computation shapes of all layers are statically known. This eliminates the
per-layer MoE host synchronization and alleviates the host-side kernel-launch overhead.
Expert-GEMM scheduling and overlapEven with the aggregate load perfectly balanced across ranks, the per-expert
token counts within each rank remain skewed, and a fixed-order, workload-oblivious schedule turns this skew into an
imbalanced makespan across SM workers. We therefore schedule the routed-expert GEMM with a workload-aware
scheduler that adapts its parameters to the current token distribution before launch and keeps them fixed during execution.
A lightweight heuristic selects these parameters using an analytical cost model of hardware metrics, with key coefficients
calibrated through offline autotuning. For the shared experts, we dispatch their GEMMs to a separate stream so that
they overlap with other kernels.
5.2.2 Memory-Efficient Training
Unified activation managerWe design a unified storage abstraction for activations, in which every tensor saved for
the backward pass is associated with a pluggable storage backend. Recomputation, quantization, and offload/remote-
offload are merely storage policies under this abstraction and can be freely composed at tensor granularity; policies are
declared via lightweight annotations on tensors, fully decoupled from the model code. Recomputation is performed at
function granularity, which supports cross-layer recomputation. In our implementation, all GPU memory is allocated
on the main compute stream and managed within a single memory pool, avoiding multi-stream fragmentation and
host-bound overhead; activations are prefetched back at layer granularity and overlapped with computation, introducing
negligible extra overhead. In Kimi K3, most activations use block-wise FP8 quantization [59, 30] combined with
offload/remote-offload, and element-wise operators are configured with recomputation.
Memory-efficient MoEIn the native MoE implementation, the gradient computation of permuted probs depends
on the forward output output. Inspired by SonicMoE [42], we rewrite this gradient through a mathematical transfor-
mation into a form that depends only on the intermediate activation act_output and the upstream gradient doutput,
eliminating the backward dependency on output at the cost of an additional lightweight element-wise computation.
Furthermore, in the forward pass of the group GEMM, we save only the input of the dispatch operation; during the
backward pass, the input of the group GEMM is recovered by recomputing dispatch. As shown in Fig. 11, the commu-
nication introduced by this recomputation can be overlapped with part of the group-GEMM backward computation,
eliminating this portion of activation storage at a negligible cost.
Memory-efficient Attention residualFor the attention residual, we design a companion optimization based on Block
AttnRes. The block representation is generated once at the boundary layer and shared by all subsequent layers, residing
directly on the GPU. The AttnRes computation is entirely wrapped with checkpointing, so the activation saved for the
backward pass at each layer is identical to that of the standard residual architecture. For pipeline parallelism, we adopt
cache-based pipeline communication [58], in which only newly generated blocks are incrementally transferred between
stages and released as soon as the micro-batch finishes, reaching the theoretical lower bound on memory footprint.
Balancing activations across PP ranksUnder interleaved 1F1B pipeline parallelism, activations are unevenly
distributed across PP ranks due to pipeline warmup, and the number of resident activations decreases as the PP rank
increases. To avoid out-of-memory (OOM) errors, we remotely offload activations to the memory of other PP ranks
using the Mooncake Transfer Engine [97], achieving balanced activation memory across PP ranks.
Pipeline ZeRO-2 gradient sharding and offloadingBeyond activations, we use Pipeline ZeRO-2 gradient shard-
ing [147] to shard gradients across data-parallel (DP) ranks. Furthermore, we store the sharded gradients in CPU
memory to reduce peak GPU memory usage, while keeping the double grad buffer on the GPU. After gradients are
reduced across DP ranks into the double grad buffer, they are accumulated into the CPU shards.
P2P-based Muon orthogonalizationThe distributed optimizer shards parameters evenly across DP ranks, whereas
the Newton–Schulz orthogonalization in Muon requires the full parameter matrix, necessitating a communication
step to gather complete parameters before each update. The naive approach performs an all-gather over the entire
parameter buffer on every rank [74], which incurs a substantial memory footprint on top of making communication the
primary bottleneck at scale. Instead, each rank retrieves only the shards of its locally owned parameters via peer-to-peer
(P2P) communication with the corresponding owner ranks, eliminating the full-parameter buffer and reducing both
memory usage and communication volume. Communication and computation are further pipelined at the granularity of
model-chunk buffers, hiding the communication overhead.
20
===== PAGE 21 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
5.2.3 Multimodal Encoder Optimization
Dynamic CP in multimodal encoderIn long-context multimodal training, large images and long videos substantially
increase the computation time of the vision encoder and cause significant load imbalance across devices. To address
this, we extend context parallelism to such large samples. A single large image is partitioned along the patch dimension
across multiple devices, and attention is computed by gathering key–value pairs (gather-KV) across CP ranks. In
addition, we divide each CP group into several sub-CP groups and distribute multiple large images across them in a
load-balanced manner, preventing the communication fraction from growing with scale. This reduces both the encoder
latency of large visual samples and the cross-device load imbalance, allowing the remaining encoder computation to be
hidden in pipeline bubbles.
Encoder computation in PP bubblesIn Kimi K2.5, we introduced the Decoupled Encoder Process (DEP) [60],
which splits ViT and text training into separate stages and balances vision forward and backward passes across PP stages.
We observe that, under the interleaved 1F1B pipeline schedule, the text forward passes of the first PP micro-batches
are all scheduled at the very beginning, while the text backward passes of the last PP micro-batches finish only at
the very end. We therefore further decompose the ViT computation [34]. The ViT forward passes of the first PP
micro-batches are executed synchronously upfront, the remaining forward passes are scheduled into pipeline bubbles,
and the backward passes are handled analogously. As a result, most of the ViT computation is hidden within pipeline
bubbles, largely eliminating the effective overhead of the vision encoder.
5.3 Infra for 1M Agentic RL
Scaling agentic RL for a model as large as Kimi K3 to million-token contexts under a bounded compute budget makes
resource efficiency a first-order goal. We therefore develop long-context RL infrastructure for efficient training and
rollout, together with high-performance, resumable sandboxes for long-horizon environment interaction.
5.3.1 Long-context RL infrastructure
We adopt co-located RL training [59] to keep each 1M-context Kimi K3 RL experiment within a few hundred GPUs, and
use partial rollouts [120] to reduce tail latency from ultra-long trajectories. This design improves hardware utilization,
but long-context rollouts introduce extra DRAM demand for KV-cache retention, which competes with training-side
states. Further, achieving high efficiency for both prefill and decoding requires careful prefix management and request
scheduling.
External KV cache poolAt 1M-context multi-step rollout, a prefix KV-cache miss is extremely expensive. Partial
rollout exacerbates this issue at the beginning of each iteration, due to many unfinished long prefill requests from the
previous iteration arriving at the same time. Speculative decoding further accelerates request turnover within relatively
fixed tool-call intervals, increasing prefix-block churn. These issues can trigger preemption and lower the cache hit rate,
which is critical for long-context RL.
We therefore decouple prefix retention from GPU residency with a write-back design. Active decoding blocks remain in
GPU KV cache, while reusable idle prefixes are written back to anexternal KV cache poolin CPU DRAM only when it
is evicted from GPU, and is prefetched back before the next reuse. KDA states are offloaded and prefetched together
with the corresponding MLA KV cache blocks, keeping their lifecycles aligned. Compared with a write-through
strategy, this policy incurs CPU DRAM usage and transfer bandwidth only for prefixes that leave the active decode
path, avoiding redundant CPU copies of blocks that are still resident and active on GPU.
To provide sufficient DRAM for the external pool, we offload training states (model weights and optimizer states) to
NVMe after a training iteration finishes. After a rollout iteration, the pool is released to avoid contention with training
workloads.
Rollout auto-throttling schedulerIn multi-step rollout, contexts grow progressively as the trajectory advances,
making fixed concurrency based on the full-trajectory average length both hard to estimate and overly conservative
early on. Conversely, setting concurrency too high creates KV cache pressure in later stages and can trigger preemption.
We therefore design an auto-throttling mechanism at the LLM request scheduling layer, using runtime signals such as
active request count, queued request count, and KV cache utilization to dynamically control how many requests are sent
to the inference engine. This keeps early rollout well utilized while reducing concurrency as KV cache pressure rises,
avoiding both under-saturation and overload without manual tuning.
21
===== PAGE 22 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Gradient-buffer reuse for non-policy model forwardingRL loss computation often requires forward-only non-
policy models, such as reference models, whose weights are too large to keep resident on GPU. We keep these weights
in CPU memory and materialize them only when needed, backing their parameter tensors with the policy model’s FP32
gradient-buffer storage. This reuses existing GPU memory without extra allocation or fragmentation, and remains safe
because the buffers are overwritten when real gradients are later computed.
With ZeRO-2 gradient sharding and offloading (§ 5.2.2), each GPU retains gradient buffers for only two VPP chunks in
Kimi K3 RL training. We stream reference weights into these slots chunk by chunk: one slot is used for the current
forward computation while the other prefetches the next chunk, hiding copy overhead without increasing GPU memory.
5.3.2 Sandbox Infrastructure
We employ multiple sandbox runtimes to support the diverse requirements of Kimi K3 post-training and evaluation,
including a traditional container-based runtime, a GPU sandbox runtime, and, most notably, a new microVM-based
sandbox runtime called AgentENV .
AgentENV4, developed in collaboration with our partners, is a sandbox system specifically designed for agentic AI
workloads. It is built around three core design goals:
• High-fidelity isolated sandbox runtimeAs agents become more capable and tasks more difficult, they tend to
explore more aggressively and may even attempt reward hacking. On the one hand, this poses unique security
challenges: in our early experiments with traditional container-based sandbox runtimes, we observed several kernel
panics and deadlocks caused by unintended agent operations. On the other hand, we want to permit as much
exploration as possible so as not to constrain agent capability, and complex tasks require a sandbox close to a
real-world environment — for example, agents should be able to mount disks, run containers, or even launch virtual
machines at will. By running isolated microVMs with Firecracker [3], AgentENV provides a level of isolation and
fidelity that container-based runtimes cannot match.
• Flexible sandbox life-cycles for agentic RLAt the low level, AgentENV supports incremental checkpointing
and resuming of sandbox states, where only memory pages dirtied since the last checkpoint are saved during
checkpointing, achieving checkpoint and resume latencies as low as 133 ms and 49 ms, respectively. On top of this,
AgentENV provides three high-level operations that help improve agentic RL efficiency.(a) Pause and Resume:
a paused sandbox consumes no memory or CPU resources; a sandbox can therefore be paused while the agent is
waiting for the model’s inference result, which can account for as much as 98% of the sandbox lifetime.(b) Fork:
fork creates a new sandbox from the exact state of the original one while keeping the original running, which is
useful for reward judging without side effects.(c) Snapshot: snapshots of a sandbox can be saved at regular intervals
for error recovery.
• High efficiency and high densityIn our workloads, tens of thousands of sandboxes, each with a unique set of
images, may need to be created within seconds. We adopt OverlayBD [69] as the image format, together with a
custom ublk driver implementation, storage-layer sharing, and P2P transport, achieving sub-second launch latency at
large scale. We further reduce memory usage with copy-on-write memory and page-cache optimizations, achieving
a memory overcommit ratio of up to 6.5×in real workloads.
Throughout Kimi K3’s training and evaluation, a total of 51,219,741 sandboxes across 1,505,678 images were created.
5.4 Inference and Online Serving
Serving Kimi K3 exposes the same challenges from the production side: the hybrid KDA–MLA architecture maintains
two fundamentally different caches that must be managed jointly at million-token contexts, its new modules and highly
sparse experts demand kernels tailored to each, and production traffic mixes requests whose per-request cost spans three
orders of magnitude. The designs below address these challenges at three levels. At the engine level, a KDA-aware
prefix cache packs the fixed-size recurrent state into the same paged pool as the MLA KV cache and keeps long prefixes
reusable across requests. At the device level, dedicated kernels for KDA decoding, Block AttnRes, and the sparse
latent MoE minimize per-token latency and memory traffic. At the fleet level, cache-aware affinity scheduling and
budget-based admission control translate these efficiencies into predictable serving.
5.4.1 KDA-Aware Prefix Cache Management
The hybrid architecture in Kimi K3 complicates prefix caching: the KDA recurrent state and the MLA KV cache differ
fundamentally in size and lifetime, yet a cached prefix is reusable only when both can be restored together at the same
4AgentENV is open-sourced athttps://github.com/kvcache-ai/AgentENV
22
===== PAGE 23 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
boundary. We therefore design a KDA-aware prefix cache that manages the two cache types jointly—from a unified
paged layout to fine-grained prefix reuse and consistency under concurrent scheduling—keeping million-token prefixes
cheap to retain and reusable across requests.
Unified cache layout for hybrid KDA–MLA attentionEach Kimi K3 block consists of three KDA layers and one
Gated MLA layer, whose caches differ fundamentally. The MLA KV cache grows with sequence length and is paged per
token, whereas the KDA recurrent state is fixed in size with a single copy per request. Maintaining a separate manager
for each would duplicate the allocation, eviction, and transfer logic. We therefore pack KDA states into the same paged
block pool as MLA KV , unifying pages to the same byte size so that both page types share one implementation of
allocation, reference counting, and eviction. Within a page, the states of all heads are stored contiguously head by
head, so that each head’s byte stream is self-contained and serves as the minimal unit of cross-node transfer. Under
prefill/decode disaggregation, when prefill and decode nodes adopt different TP degrees, re-layout is performed on the
transfer path with zero GPU-side reshuffling. This asymmetry proved useful during development: any type-confused
access yields garbage rather than plausible data — a zero-overhead sanity check on the pooled layout.
KDA prefix cache optimizationBlock-hash-based prefix caching reuses the KV cache at the granularity of one
physical block: only complete blocks are hashed, so only block-aligned prefixes are reusable.
This coupling breaks down in Kimi K3. Block-hash matching requires one block size shared by all layers, and a prefix
hit is reusable only if the KDA state at the hit boundary has been persisted. A KDA layer maintains a single large
recurrent state per sequence rather than per-token entries, so state snapshots are affordable only at sparse boundaries;
the shared block size is therefore forced to 1024–6144 tokens—and, since hashing is tied to the storage block, the
hash granularity as well, although MLA’s per-token entries alone would tolerate much finer blocks. At such a coarse
granularity caching is nearly useless: requests shorter than one block can never be reused, and chunked prefill exports
no cacheable prefix until it crosses a full block boundary.
physical cache block (6144 tokens) = 12 prefix-hash blocks
hash block (512 tokens)
MLA KV
KDA ckpt
hit boundaryB= 2560
restore the KDA checkpoint atB; copy-on-write the partial MLA block;
resume prefill from tokenBwith zero recompute of[0,B)
Figure 12:Fine-grained prefix caching within a physical cache block.A 6144-token physical block contains twelve 512-token
hash blocks, with cached MLA blocks shown in blue and empty blocks in light gray. The markers below show the KDA checkpoint
status at each hash boundary. An open circle (◦) denotes a boundary without a stored checkpoint, a gray dot (•) denotes a persisted
KDA checkpoint, and an orange dot (•) marks the checkpoint hit at B= 2560 . Persisted checkpoints are sparse and typically
coincide with conversation-turn boundaries. The request reuses the five MLA hash blocks and the KDA checkpoint at B, then
resumes prefill without recomputing[0,B).
We therefore decouple the two granularities. Prefix hashing runs on finehash blocks(e.g., 512 tokens) inside MLA
pages, while the physical block remains the coarse allocation unit. Alignment runs the other way for KDA: checkpoints
of the recurrent state are saved only at (a sparse subset of) MLA’s hash endpoints—the only positions a lookup can ever
reference.
During prefill, a partially filled MLA page is registered in the prefix-cache index under the chained hash of its last
complete hash block, where each hash covers all preceding hash blocks so that matching an endpoint certifies the
whole prefix up to it; the registered endpoint advances as the page fills. Meanwhile, after each forward pass, the KDA
kernel persists the recurrent state at the last hash-aligned position processed. Checkpoints are large, so intermediate
checkpoints superseded as the request advances are recycled, while those at conversation-turn boundaries are retained
for cross-request reuse. Cached checkpoints are read-only snapshots: a hit restores the state by copying it into the
request’s private running state before the next forward pass, and new checkpoints are written to fresh slots, so a
checkpoint visible to other requests is never mutated in place.
Lookup proceeds in two stages (Fig. 12). The MLA stage matches whole physical blocks by chained hash and, at
the first missing block, falls back to the hash endpoints inside it, so partially filled pages remain hittable. The KDA
stage then requires a checkpoint at the candidate boundary in every KDA cache group, each of which maintains an
23
===== PAGE 24 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
independent recurrent state. The hit is the longest boundary satisfying both stages—always a multiple of the hash block,
and never required to be a multiple of the physical block. In Fig. 12, a request whose first 2800 tokens match the cached
prefix hits atB= 2560 = 5×512 , deep inside a 6144-token physical block, and resumes prefill from tokenB instead
of recomputing[0,B).
Consistency under concurrent schedulingThe remaining design points are each dictated by a concrete failure mode
of sharing partially filled blocks, in a setting where a hit block is at once a shared cache entry and the growth point of a
private request, and where the MLA and KDA cache groups must agree on every hit boundary. First, all cache groups
draw blocks from one shared free list, so allocating a private copy for one group could evict a block that another group
has just hit; every hit block is therefore pinned across all groups before anything is allocated. Second, the copy into the
private block executes on the GPU immediately before the forward pass, so a block allocated or registered within the
current scheduling step would still hand the previous owner’s bytes to a reader; such blocks are excluded from matching
until their copies land. Third, a checkpoint can restore a request only if it exists in every KDA group, so evicting one
group’s checkpoint atomically invalidates its siblings — a checkpoint is either hittable in every group or in none. With
these mechanisms, every registered state always corresponds to exactly its declared token prefix, and prefix caching for
hybrid KDA–MLA models reaches the same generality as for full-attention models: any shared prefix is reusable at any
512-token boundary, independently of request length, chunking, or scheduling interleaving.
5.4.2 High-Performance Kernels
Kimi K3 introduces several new architectural modules: KDA (§2.1.1), Block AttnRes (§2.2), and Stable LatentMoE
(§2.3). We optimize the kernel implementation for each.
KDACompared with KDA prefill (§5.1), KDA decoding presents a distinct set of challenges: the primary bottleneck
shifts from exploiting parallelism to efficiently managing the evolving recurrent state, which is updated in place at every
decoding step. This in-place update becomes problematic in MTP-based speculative decoding: if verification rejects a
subset of the drafted tokens, the state has already advanced beyond the last accepted token and cannot be trivially rolled
back. Maintaining a state snapshot for each draft position would enable rollback, but would also multiply state traffic —
a cost that dominates at the large batch sizes typical of online serving.
The state after any accepted draft prefix, however, is fully determined by the projected inputs of the draft tokens, which
are far smaller than the state itself. We therefore cache only these projected inputs, rebuild the states of accepted tokens
on-chip, and write back the states of the verified and bonus tokens, a design independently proposed in the concurrent
work ReplaySSM [25]. The replayed tokens, the bonus token, and the next draft window share one recurrent loop
inside a single fused kernel covering short convolution, input normalization, gating, the KDA recurrence, and output
normalization. Verification latency grows sub-linearly with the number of tokens verified and remains below that of
state-caching baselines. Because the projection caches never leave the decode stage, prefix caching and prefill–decode
disaggregation operate on the same payload as in non-speculative serving.
Block AttnResBlock AttnRes [58] follows a two-phase schedule: a batched inter-block pass reads the cached block
representations once per block, after which each layer folds in the intra-block partial sum through an online-softmax
merge [80]. Memory access accounts for a substantial fraction of the cost of these kernels in both prefill and decoding,
so our optimizations in both stages focus primarily on memory efficiency.
For prefill, materializing the block representations on every tensor-parallel (TP) rank would incur substantial redundant
memory consumption. We therefore adopt sequence parallelism (SP) for activations: the TP all-reduce is decomposed
into a reduce-scatter and an all-gather, with the intra-block kernel inserted between the two collectives, operating on the
sequence-sharded hidden states so that the block representations of each token are materialized on exactly one rank.
This eliminates the additional memory consumption and reduces the I/O overheads of Block AttnRes during prefill.
For decoding, we launch the inter-block kernel on a side stream so that it overlaps with independent computation on the
main stream. The intra-block kernel is instead streamlined through fusion: the merging of the AttnRes output with its
partial-sum update, together with the subsequent RMSNorm, is fused into the preceding TP all-reduce, eliminating a
dedicated kernel for the intra-block phase. Together, these optimizations hide the latency of the inter-block pass and
reduce the memory traffic of the intra-block phase.
Stable LatentMoEStable LatentMoE increases both the total number of experts and the number of activated
experts per token. The resulting growth in both the expert space and the per-token expert count raises scheduling and
coordination overheads, making it difficult for conventional MoE kernels to sustain high hardware utilization. These
challenges motivate dedicated kernel optimizations for this module.
24
===== PAGE 25 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
To mitigate the overhead of the latent GEMMs, we adopt three optimizations. First, we fuse the latent down-projection
with the MoE router into a single GEMM. Second, we shard latent weight matrices across ranks and fuse the output
all-gather into the GEMM epilogue using multimem store instructions. Finally, we overlap the resulting communication
with other operators, such as the shared-expert computation. Together, these optimizations eliminate redundant weight
traffic and duplicated computation, while hiding the communication latency behind computation.
For routed experts, at small batch sizes, the group GEMMs reduce to memory-bound streaming of weight matrices
— a regime for which conventional tile-centric kernels are poorly suited due to their compute-oriented design and
preprocessing overheads. We instead build the MoE decoding kernel upon the token-centric design of WarpDecode [12],
in which each warp is responsible for one output neuron and streams the associated weights directly from memory. To
further increase parallelism, we subdivide each warp into finer-grained lane teams, each processing a disjoint subset of
experts, followed by a warp-wide reduction of the partial results. In addition, the weight layout is permuted offline at a
one-time preprocessing cost, substantially reducing the runtime dequantization overhead.
5.4.3 Fleet-Level Scheduling
Beyond a single serving instance, the challenge shifts from per-request efficiency to predictability: a prefix-cache miss
costs orders of magnitude more than a hit, and a burst of million-token requests can starve short ones. We propose two
fleet-level scheduling policies to address this: cache-aware affinity scheduling routes each session to the cluster holding
its prefix cache while bounding the cost of cluster failures, and budget-based admission control grants each request
class its own resource budget so that bursty long-context traffic cannot degrade system-wide SLOs.
Cache-aware affinity schedulingAt 1M context, a typical coding input carries a prefix of 400K tokens but requires a
prefill increment of only 4K tokens, so a prefix-cache hit avoids re-prefilling the entire prefix and is orders of magnitude
cheaper than a miss. We therefore route each request to the cluster that holds its prefix cache, as moving the cache
to another cluster would require transferring it over inter-cluster links far slower than the intra-cluster fabric. This
cache-aware affinity, however, binds each session to a single cluster, whose failure would interrupt all sessions bound to
it. Consistent hashing therefore pins each session to two clusters, a primary that serves its traffic and a pre-assigned
secondary that takes over when the primary fails. The secondary holds none of the session’s prefix cache and must
re-prefill it upon failover. Since consistent hashing distributes the secondary assignments of different sessions uniformly
across the fleet, this re-prefill work is divided among many clusters rather than concentrated on one. Cache locality is
thus preserved in the common case, while the impact of any single cluster failure remains bounded.
Budget-based admission controlProduction traffic mixes short requests under 2K tokens with ultra-long requests up
to 1M tokens, so the per-request cost spans roughly three orders of magnitude and the total load imposed by any fixed
number of requests is highly unpredictable. Capacity planning, queueing models, and rate-limiting quotas based on
the “average request” all break down under this variance. In a typical failure mode, a burst of long-context requests
saturates the available compute, and short requests arriving afterwards cannot be scheduled promptly, degrading time to
first token (TTFT) across all traffic. We therefore adopt budget-based admission control, allocating separate resource
budgets to different request classes so that bursty long-context traffic consumes at most its own share of the capacity
and cannot degrade system-wide SLOs experienced by other classes.
6 Evaluations
6.1 Main Results
6.1.1 Benchmarks
We evaluate Kimi K3 on a comprehensive benchmark suite organized along four broad capability axes:
• Reasoning & Knowledge: GPQA Diamond [102], CritPt [8], AA-LCR [9], and Humanity’s Last Exam (HLE-Full,
with and without tools) [94].
•Coding: DeepSWE [31], ProgramBench [96], Terminal-Bench 2.1 [79], FrontierSWE [36], SWE-Marathon [119],
PostTrainBench [95], MLS-Bench-Lite [77], and SciCode [123, 8].
•Agentic: BrowseComp [133], DeepSearchQA [128], ResearchRubrics [107], Toolathlon-Verified [70], MCPMark-
Verified [135], MCP-Atlas [11], AutomationBench [109], JobBench [71], GDPval-AA v2 [91], AA-Briefcase [8,
2], Agents’ Last Exam (ALE) [4, 117], APEX-Agents [129], OfficeQA Pro [88], SpreadsheetBench 2 [152],
OSWorld-Verified [138] and OSWorld 2.0 [145], SaaS-Bench [110],τ 3-Banking [1, 8], Harvey Lab-AA [8, 43],
CorpFin v2 [21], Finance Agent v2 [35], and Legal Research Bench [66].
25
===== PAGE 26 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
• Vision: WorldVQA [151], OmniDocBench [89], PerceptionBench [63], Video-MME [37], MMVU [150], and
BabyVision [13] with Python tool. MMMU-Pro [146], CharXiv (RQ) [132], Math-Vision [130], and ZeroBench-
main [103], each with and without Python tool augmentation.
6.1.2 Baselines
We benchmark against state-of-the-art proprietary and open-source models. For proprietary models, we compare against
Claude Fable 5 [16], GPT-5.6 Sol [40], Claude Opus 4.8 [17], and GPT-5.5 [39]. The results of Claude Fable 5 include
fallback behaviors and the results of GPT-5.6 Sol include potential cyberguards. For open-source models, we include
GLM-5.2 [38]. All models are evaluated at maximum reasoning effort, except GPT-5.5, which uses the “xhigh” setting.
6.1.3 Evaluation Configurations
All Kimi K3 evaluations use reasoning effortmax and temperature = 1.0. For single-step tasks, such as GPQA Diamond,
HLE-Full, and vision benchmarks without tools, we set top-p = 0.95. For agentic tasks, we set top-p = 1.0. Generally,
we recommend using top-p = 0.95 for reasoning and knowledge tasks, and top-p = 1.0 for coding and agentic scenarios.
CodingEach model is evaluated under one of three agentic harnesses: Kimi Code [57], Claude Code [15], or
Codex [20]. On DeepSWE, we report results on the v1.1 tasks, with additional reference to the official leaderboard
(Kimi K3 attains 67.3 with the mini-SWE-agent harness). On Terminal-Bench 2.1, we report the best score across
harnesses for all models. Our SWE-Marathon evaluation is based on an H20-calibrated branch of the official tasks as of
July 9, 2026, prior to the final v1.1 release, with Docker images, performance gates, and reference oracles for the GPU
tasks recalibrated for H20 but the correctness and anti-cheat validators unchanged; Claude Fable 5 hits fallbacks on
35% of the tasks. For PostTrainBench, we evaluate Kimi K3, Claude Fable 5, and GPT-5.6 Sol using the official Harbor
implementation at maximum effort, averaged over three runs on H20 GPUs (instead of H100 in the official setting).
FrontierSWE dominance scores are recomputed from raw scores using the official evaluation script as of July 16, 2026.
AgenticFor OfficeQA Pro, each test case provides the agent with the entire PDF corpus rendered as images, with no
machine-readable text available. MCP-Atlas is evaluated on the 500-task public subset with a 100-turn limit, using
Gemini 3.1 Pro as the judge. AutomationBench is evaluated on the 600-task public subset. For BrowseComp we adopt a
context-compaction strategy triggered at 300K tokens; evaluated with the full 1M-token context window and no context
management, Kimi K3 achieves 90.4%.
VisionScores are averaged over three runs, except ZeroBench-main, which we run five times following the official
setting. MMMU-Pro follows the official protocol, preserving the original input order and prepending images to the
text input. For WorldVQA, we observe consistent refusal behavior across models and enforce an answer via prompt
engineering.
Third-party resultsGDPval-AA v2, AA-Briefcase, τ 3-Banking, Harvey Lab-AA, APEX-Agents, SciCode, AA-
LCR, and CritPt scores are cited from Artificial Analysis [8] as of July 23, 2026. For Harvey Lab-AA, we report the
criterion pass rate. CorpFin v2, Finance Agent v2, and Legal Research Bench scores are cited from Vals AI [126].
Agents’ Last Exam scores are cited from the official leaderboard [4] as of July 23, 2026; we report the leaderboard’s
primary pass-rate metric. On the leaderboard, each model is paired with a specific harness: Kimi K3 with Kimi
Code; GPT-5.6 Sol, GPT-5.5 with Codex; and Claude Fable 5, Claude Opus 4.8, and GLM-5.2 with Claude Code.
Toolathlon-verified and JobBench scores are cited from their official leaderboards [121, 53] as of July 24, 2026.
6.1.4 Results
Table 2 provides a comprehensive comparison of Kimi K3 against both proprietary and open-source baselines. Overall,
Kimi K3 closely trails the strongest proprietary models, Claude Fable 5 and GPT-5.6 Sol, while consistently outper-
forming Claude Opus 4.8, GPT-5.5, and GLM-5.2 across the benchmark suite. We highlight key observations across
core capability domains below:
Reasoning & KnowledgeOn graduate-level reasoning, Kimi K3 is competitive with the frontier, scoring 93.5% on
GPQA Diamond. However, a gap remains on research-level tasks: on HLE-Full it trails Claude Fable 5 and GPT-5.6
Sol both with and without tools, at 56.0% and 43.5% respectively; and on CritPt it scores 23.4%, lagging behind Claude
Fable 5, GPT-5.6 Sol, and GPT-5.5, indicating that research-level reasoning remains a key direction for improvement.
26
===== PAGE 27 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Table 2: Performance comparison of Kimi K3 against proprietary and open-source models.Bolddenotes the best result for each
benchmark and underline the second-best. Unless otherwise noted, Kimi K3 results are obtained with reasoning effort set to max and
temperature equal to 1.0. For HLE-Full, MMMU-Pro, CharXiv (RQ), Math-Vision, and ZeroBench, each cell reports the scores
without and with tool augmentation (general tools for HLE-Full, Python for the vision benchmarks), in that order.†On the official
Agents’ Last Exam leaderboard, the Claude Fable 5 entry runs at xhigh effort with 40% of tasks annotated as downgraded.
Proprietary Open Weight
Benchmark Kimi K3
(max)
Claude Fable 5
(max, w/
fallback)
GPT-5.6 Sol
(max)
Claude Opus
4.8 (max)
GPT-5.5
(xhigh)
GLM-5.2
(max)
Reasoning & Knowledge
GPQA Diamond 93.5 92.694.191.0 93.5 91.2
CritPt 23.4 28.632.320.9 27.1 20.9
AA-LCR 74.7 70.0 73.7 67.7 74.3 71.3
HLE-Full 43.5 / 56.0 53.3/63.044.5 / 58.0 49.8 / 57.9 41.4 / 52.2 -
Coding
DeepSWE 67.5 70.073.059.0 67.0 46.2
ProgramBench 77.8 76.8 77.6 71.9 70.8 63.7
Terminal-Bench 2.1 88.3 88.088.884.6 83.4 82.7
FrontierSWE 81.2 86.671.3 66.7 64.9 67.3
SWE-Marathon 42.0 35.0 39.0 40.0 14.0 13.0
PostTrainBench 36.6 41.434.6 34.1 28.4 34.3
MLS-Bench-Lite 48.3 49.946.2 42.8 35.5 40.4
SciCode 58.7 60.256.1 53.5 56.1 50.5
Agentic
BrowseComp 91.2 88.0 90.4 84.3 84.4 -
DeepSearchQA (F1) 95.0 94.2 - 93.1 - -
ResearchRubrics 76.2 - 73.8 73.5 64.0 71.1
GDPval-AA v2 (Elo) 1686 1747 1736 1593 1491 1510
Toolathlon-Verified 76.5 77.974.9 76.2 73.5 59.9
MCPMark-Verified 94.5 87.4 92.9 76.4 92.9 -
MCP-Atlas 84.2 84.783.6 83.6 82.8 82.6
AutomationBench 30.8 29.1 29.7 27.2 22.7 12.9
JobBench 54.3 57.445.4 48.4 38.3 43.4
AA-Briefcase (Elo) 1548 15831495 1354 1158 1260
Agents’ Last Exam 28.3 25.7† 29.627.0 26.6 20.4
APEX-Agents 41.0 43.339.9 39.4 38.5 35.6
OfficeQA Pro 63.3 69.963.2 63.9 60.9 41.4
SpreadsheetBench 2 34.8 34.7 32.4 31.6 29.1 28.1
OSWorld-Verified 84.8 85.083.0 83.4 79.0 -
OSWorld 2.0 58.3 66.1 62.6 55.7 49.5 -
SaaS-Bench 60.1 -61.456.1 43.8 -
τ 3-Banking 33.4 26.8 33.0 27.6 31.3 26.8
Harvey Lab-AA 94.6 93.6 87.2 91.1 86.3 91.0
CorpFin v2 71.6 71.864.4 66.7 68.4 66.1
Finance Agent v2 54.4 56.353.8 53.9 51.8 49.7
Legal Research Bench 44.2 49.5 48.1 43.8 40.4 31.3
Vision
WorldVQA ForceAnswer 51.0 56.741.8 39.1 38.5 -
OmniDocBench 91.1 89.8 85.8 87.9 89.4 -
PerceptionBench 58.5 57.259.747.2 55.8 -
Video-MME (w/ sub) 90.0 - 89.5 86.0 89.3 -
MMVU 82.1 - 81.2 79.2 81.7 -
BabyVision w/ Python 85.7 90.5 88.9 81.2 83.6 -
MMMU-Pro 81.6 / 83.4 81.2 /86.5 83.0/ 84.6 78.9 / 82.7 81.2 / 83.2 -
CharXiv (RQ) 84.8 / 91.3 88.9/93.584.6 / 89.1 80.5 / 89.9 84.1 / 89.0 -
Math-Vision 94.3 / 97.8 94.8 /98.6 95.8/ 97.8 86.7 / 97.1 92.2 / 96.8 -
ZeroBench-main (pass@5) 23.0/ 41.0 23.0/46.017.0 / 35.0 17.0 / 34.0 22.0 / 41.0 -
27
===== PAGE 28 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
CodingKimi K3 delivers strong agentic coding performance. It attains the best score on ProgramBench (77.8%), and
on SWE-Marathon—a GPU-kernel-oriented suite—it scores 42.0%, 7 points ahead of Claude Fable 5. On Terminal-
Bench 2.1, it nearly matches GPT-5.6 Sol (88.3% vs. 88.8%). On DeepSWE, it ranks behind Claude Fable 5 and
GPT-5.6 Sol but ahead of Claude Opus 4.8 and GPT-5.5. On FrontierSWE, a long-horizon benchmark, it ranks second
with a score of 81.2% as of July 16, 2026, behind only Claude Fable 5 (86.6%) and well ahead of all other models.
AgenticKimi K3 achieves state-of-the-art results on a broad set of agentic suites, including BrowseComp (91.2%),
DeepSearchQA (95.0% F1 score), ResearchRubrics (76.2%), MCPMark-Verified (94.5%), AutomationBench (30.8%),
SpreadsheetBench 2 (34.8%), τ 3-Banking (33.4%), and Harvey Lab-AA (94.6% criterion pass rate). The main
exceptions are the Elo-rated knowledge-work suites, both led by Claude Fable 5: Kimi K3 places third on GDPval-AA v2
(1,686) and second on AA-Briefcase (1,548). Elsewhere it is largely competitive: on CorpFin v2 and OSWorld-Verified,
it finishes just 0.2 points behind Claude Fable 5 (71.6% vs. 71.8% and 84.8% vs. 85.0%, respectively), while the
remaining harder computer-use benchmarks (OSWorld 2.0, SaaS-Bench) are still led by Claude Fable 5 or GPT-5.6 Sol.
VisionKimi K3 exhibits strong multimodal understanding capabilities, which are further amplified by Python tools:
on Math-Vision it reaches 94.3%, rising to 97.8% with Python tools, and on the challenging ZeroBench-main it
ties Claude Fable 5 at 23.0% (pass@5), jumping to 41.0% with Python tools. It also achieves the highest score on
OmniDocBench (91.1%) and, on WorldVQA (51.0%), ranks second behind Claude Fable 5, ahead of GPT-5.6 Sol and
Claude Opus 4.8.
6.2 Internal Evaluation
6.2.1 Capability Evaluation
Beyond the public benchmark suite, we maintain a collection of in-house benchmarks that target capability areas public
evaluations do not adequately cover, giving a more comprehensive measure of model and agent capabilities. These
benchmarks are refreshed and expanded frequently, so that they can closely track the model’s evolving failure modes
and directly guide data and training iterations. They broadly fall into three categories: coding capability and experience,
general agent experience, and conversational experience. Table 3 reports the results across these benchmarks.
Coding Capability and Experience
• Kimi Code Bench 2.0 (KCB 2.0): evaluates code agents on realistic, end-to-end software engineering tasks across a
broad range of programming languages and production-oriented technology stacks.
• Kimi Webdev Bench: evaluates models on challenging web development prompts drawn from real usage scenarios,
with outputs compared through blind expert judgment, with results available in Table 4.
• Coding Experience: evaluates the practical experience of working with the model as a coding agent in real
development workflows.
General Agent Experience
• 24/7 ClawBench 2.0: simulates always-on assistant work, in which tasks span multiple days, events arrive concur-
rently, and interruptions are routine.
• Multi-Agent Infra for Routing and Assignment (MIRA) Bench: evaluates long-chain, multi-role, multi-system
enterprise collaboration tasks, assessing whether agents can carry out end-to-end work and judge when to organize
or delegate to subagents.
• Kimi Autonomous Execution Tasks (KAET): evaluates long-horizon autonomous execution on tasks simulating
real user requests and enterprise system operations.
• Context Learning and Instruction Following (CLIF) Bench: targets in-context learning, requiring models to learn
from a provided context while following instructions that interleave multiple complex skills.
•Agentic Vision Bench: evaluates whether agents notice and correctly use key visual facts during task execution.
• Swarm Bench: evaluates models’ ability to orchestrate agent swarms [60] on complex tasks that benefit from
coordinated decomposition and parallel execution.
• Online Experience: mirrors the distribution of real online agent usage, measuring performance on the deliverable
file types most frequently requested by users.
28
===== PAGE 29 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Table 3: Results on our in-house benchmarks.Bolddenotes the best reported result per benchmark; “-” denotes scores not yet
included in this report. Unless otherwise noted, models are evaluated at maximum reasoning effort (GPT-5.5 at xhigh); harness
assignments are shown in the Harness column. a13 fallbacks and 1 refusal out of 80 tasks. b10 refusals out of 80 tasks. c3 refusals
out of 80 tasks. dIncludes 2 tasks that Claude Fable 5 refused to answer. eIncludes 14 tasks that Claude Fable 5 refused to answer. f6
refusals out of 95 tasks. g Reported metric is 1−hallucination rate; higher is better.
Proprietary Open Weight
Benchmark Harness Kimi K3
(max)
Claude Fable
5 (max)
GPT-5.6 Sol
(max)
Claude
Opus 4.8
(max)
GPT-5.5
(xhigh)
GLM-5.2
(max)
Coding Experience
Kimi Code Bench 2.0 Claude Code 73.7 76.9a - 71.7 - 64.2
Kimi Code 72.9 - - - 66.0 -
Codex - - 64.8 b - 69.0 c -
Coding Experience Claude Code 59.9 59.8 - 58.0 - 53.3
Kimi Code 56.6 - - - - -
Codex - - 59.3 - 56.8 -
General Agent Experience
24/7 ClawBench 2.0 OpenClaw 48.3 47.4d 52.047.2 48.5 43.2
MIRA Bench MIRA 64.1 72.962.2 59.8 54.6 -
KAET Kimi Code 83.5 -85.478.7 79.7 74.7
CLIF Bench Kimi Code 52.4 - 50.6 48.8 52.3 39.2
Agentic Vision Bench Kimi Code 78.3 81.182.982.8 76.9 -
Swarm Bench Kimi Agent 76.3 - 73.2 72.6 61.8 58.5
Online Experience Kimi Agent 77.9 74.2e 84.069.4 73.7 64.0
Deep Research Bench Kimi Agent 90.0 - 85.3 87.2 81.9 84.0
Finance Bench N/A 62.6 -62.760.7 58.4 55.4
KWV Bench N/A 64.7 63.666.961.7 65.8 -
DECK Bench N/A 73.5 73.074.766.9 68.2 68.6
Agent Behavior Bench Kimi Work 65.0 75.5f 76.465.7 70.1 -
Conversational Experience
Faithfulness g N/A 85.5 - 84.8 83.686.5 74.8
Chat All-in-One Bench Kimi Work 85.2 88.079.0 83.8 71.8 -
Table 4: Results on the in-house Kimi Webdev Bench: Kimi K3 (max) against Claude Opus 4.8 (max), both run with the Claude
Code harness. The comparison is performed under blind expert judging, where experts score each output on code quality, feature
completeness, visual fidelity, and interaction experience without knowing which model produced it. Win, Tie, and Lose report the
percentage of prompts where Kimi K3’s output is preferred, rated comparable, or dispreferred, respectively.
Domain Win Tie Lose Win−Lose
Games 55.6% 3.7% 40.7% +14.9%
3D / WebGL / Shader 72.7% 13.7% 13.6% +59.1%
Website / UI Clone 52.6% 21.1% 26.3% +26.3%
Overall 58.6% 13.8% 27.6%+31.0%
• Deep Research Bench: evaluates models on deep-research-style queries curated by domain experts and graded with
expert-aligned rubrics.
• Finance Bench: evaluates models on realistic financial work that requires end-to-end execution of complete
workflows, from source materials to reviewable deliverables.
• Knowledge Work Vision (KWV) Bench: evaluates atomic visual capabilities extracted from tasks distilled from
real knowledge-work scenarios.
• DECK Bench: measures the capability to produce high-quality presentation decks from task descriptions drawn
from real usage scenarios.
• Agent Behavior Bench: extends agent evaluation from outcome correctness to process quality, scoring tool-use
behavior, efficiency, and discipline alongside task completion.
Conversational Experience
29
===== PAGE 30 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
• Faithfulness: measures factual hallucination rates in model responses, with each response verified by a fact checker.
• Chat All-in-One Bench: measures conversational experience at every stage of product usage, with scenarios
designed around real online user needs.
Evaluation ConfigurationsUnless a benchmark is split into separate rows by harness, the Harness column in Table 3
reports the harness used for Kimi K3. For other models, Claude models and GLM-5.2 are evaluated with Claude Code,
while GPT models are evaluated with Codex. The exceptions are benchmarks where all models use the same specified
harness: OpenClaw for 24/7 ClawBench 2.0; MIRA (Multi-Agent Infra for Routing and Assignment), an internal
out-of-distribution harness, for MIRA Bench; Kimi Work for Agent Behavior Bench and Chat All-in-One; and Kimi
Code for CLIF and Agentic Vision Bench.
ResultsThe in-house suite separates Kimi K3’s strengths from its weaknesses more sharply than the public bench-
marks. The clearest strengths are orchestration- and research-type agency: Kimi K3 leads Swarm Bench (76.3) and Deep
Research Bench (90.0) by clear margins, indicating strong capability in decomposing complex objectives, coordinating
parallel work, and producing rubric-satisfying deliverables. Coding is likewise a strength: on Kimi Code Bench 2.0 it
trails only Claude Fable 5, and it attains the best score on Coding Experience, suggesting that its practical behavior as a
coding agent — communication quality, behavioral appropriateness, and instruction-following stability — is ahead of
its raw task scores; on the Kimi Webdev Bench, expert judges prefer it over Claude Opus 4.8 by a +31.0-point overall
margin, with the largest gain on 3D/WebGL/Shader tasks. Professional knowledge work has also improved markedly
over the previous generation, with Finance Bench essentially tied with GPT-5.6 Sol.
Kimi K3 trails the leaders mainly on Agent Behavior Bench, MIRA Bench, 24/7 ClawBench 2.0, Agentic Vision Bench,
and KWV Bench. On the remaining filled suites (KAET, CLIF Bench, Online Experience, DECK Bench, Faithfulness,
and Chat All-in-One Bench), Kimi K3 ranks first or a close second.
6.2.2 Cyber Security Evaluation
We evaluate the model’s cybersecurity capability along a two-tier progression of increasing operational risk: vulnerability
discovery with proof-of-concept development (Tier 1), and end-to-end exploit development (Tier 2). Evaluation
targets include recent versions of widely deployed software—operating-system kernel components and open-source
projects—as well as our internal infrastructure, including production services and codebases. All tasks run in standard
configurations representative of real-world deployments. Frontier models from Anthropic and OpenAI refuse cyber-
related tasks, making a comparable evaluation infeasible; we therefore exclude them from this suite.
Vulnerability discovery (Tier 1).This tier tasks the model with identifying genuine bugs in current codebases—rather
than reproducing known vulnerabilities—and demonstrating that they are reproducible. These capabilities are primarily
associated with defensive security research.
Across dozens of widely deployed systems spanning operating-system kernels, databases, AI services, web frameworks,
blockchain, and VPN software, the model identified hundreds of candidate vulnerabilities. Of the findings that underwent
human review, approximately 70% were confirmed as genuine, including 16 previously unknown vulnerabilities across
six projects.
Two findings in the Linux kernel illustrate the depth of these results. First, the model identified a remotely triggerable
heap out-of-bounds write. The bug was introduced by an incomplete upstream fix and affects all subsequent releases,
up to and including the latest upstream code. Security experts confirmed it as a remote denial-of-service primitive.
Second, the model identified a Dirty-COW-class vulnerability in the RDMA subsystem: an earlier upstream fix had
inadvertently dropped a permission check, enabling kernel-side writes to read-only memory pages. Security experts
confirmed it as a deterministic local privilege-escalation primitive.
Exploit development (Tier 2).This tier requires the model to convert a vulnerability into a working end-to-end
exploit, and is the tier most directly relevant to misuse risk. We evaluate it against GLM-5.2 as the baseline, using an
in-house suite of 36 tasks spanning two tracks.
User-space exploitation(16 tasks). The model must exploit real CVEs end-to-end in widely deployed user-space
software, including PostgreSQL, the XWiki collaboration platform, the Apache HTTP Server, and several content-
management systems and other applications. For each task, the model is given full source code and a live instance;
targets run in standard configurations without additional hardening.
30
===== PAGE 31 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Linux kernel exploitation(20 tasks). Each task provides a reproducible QEMU environment built from a historical
kernel CVE, and the model must write a C exploit that escalates privileges from an unprivileged user to root. Mitigations
are progressively enabled across difficulty grades.
Every task in the suite is verified solvable by human security experts. We estimate that completing the full suite requires
roughly 540 expert-hours, or about 15 hours per task on average.
Results on the exploit suite.The model demonstrates meaningful exploit-development capability on this suite,
solving 14 of 36 tasks (38.9%) versus 8 of 36 (22.2%) for GLM-5.2. Its successes are unevenly distributed, however:
10 of the 14 come from the user-space track. On the kernel track, neither model solves three-quarters of the tasks.
Since every task is solvable by human experts, the unsolved tasks directly measure the model’s remaining gap to
human-level capability. Trajectory analysis attributes this gap to four recurring failure modes: (i) difficulty completing
the final stage of an exploit chain from primitives already obtained; (ii) poor strategy selection under mitigations, such
as persisting with control-flow hijacking when a data-only attack would be simpler and more reliable; (iii) getting
trapped in prolonged, unproductive debugging loops; and (iv) insufficient verification of the final deliverable before
submission.
Summary.The model’s cyber capability is strongest at Tier 1 and at user-space exploitation within Tier 2, yet a clear
gap to human experts remains. At Tier 1, which is defensive in nature, the model identifies genuine vulnerabilities—
including previously unknown ones—and demonstrates their reproducibility. At Tier 2, it completes end-to-end exploits
against user-space targets. Against hardened targets, however, completing the full exploit chain remains the bottleneck,
and many expert-solvable tasks go unsolved.
An independent joint assessment by the UK AI Security Institute and NIST’s Center for AI Standards and Innovation
(CAISI) [125] reaches conclusions consistent with ours. Kimi K3 outperforms GLM-5.2 on exploit development (32%
vs. 24% on ExploitBench; 17 vs. 11 steps on a 32-step simulated enterprise network that takes a human expert roughly
20 hours), but trails frontier cyber-capable models on end-to-end exploit completion, achieving arbitrary code execution
on 0 of 41 tasks.
We regard our evaluation as a lower bound on capability. These results are conditioned on the current model version
and evaluation coverage, and we will revisit them at each major model update.
6.3 Third-Party Evaluation
Kimi K3 has also been independently evaluated by third-party organizations since its release. Table 5 summarizes the
headline results as of July 23, 2026.
Artificial AnalysisArtificial Analysis evaluated Kimi K3 [8]. Kimi K3 attains an Intelligence Index v4.1 of 57.1,
ranking fourth of 580 models — third if GPT-5.6 Sol effort variants are counted as a single entry — behind Claude
Fable 5 (59.9) and GPT-5.6 Sol (58.9), and ahead of all other evaluated models.
Vals AIOn Vals AI’s GDP-weighted industry benchmark suite [126], Kimi K3 ranks second of 39 models on the Vals
Index (74.7%), behind Claude Fable 5 (75.1%) and ahead of GPT-5.6 Sol (73.1%).
ArenaOn the crowdsourced human-preference arenas [75], Kimi K3 ranks first of 99 models on the WebDev Arena
(1,678 Elo, ahead of Claude Fable 5 at 1,634) — the first open model to top this leaderboard — and eighth of 200 on
the Text Arena (1,486 Elo). On the Agent Arena, which opened for voting around July 19, Kimi K3 currently ranks
fourth of 37 (9.1), behind Claude Fable 5 (12.7), GPT-5.6 Sol (10.1), and Claude Opus 4.8 (9.8).
6.4 Cost Efficiency
Beyond scores, we examine inference cost efficiency by comparing score against per-task cost across four suites
covering coding and agentic tasks: Kimi Code Bench 2.0, BrowseComp, GDPval-AA v2, and AA-Briefcase. For Kimi
Code Bench 2.0, costs are measured internally, with Kimi K3 run via Kimi Code, and all other models via Claude Code.
For BrowseComp, the cost of Kimi K3 is measured from our own runs, while the costs of Claude and GPT are cited
from published charts [40, 18, 19]. For GDPval-AA v2 and AA-Briefcase, costs are cited from Artificial Analysis’s
pay-per-token API pricing as of July 23, 2026 [8].
On Kimi Code Bench 2.0, Kimi K3 is 4.0 points behind Claude Fable 5 at 38% of its cost, and at high effort it already
matches Claude Opus 4.8’s maximum-effort score at roughly one third of the cost. On BrowseComp, Kimi K3 attains
31
===== PAGE 32 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Table 5: Headline independent third-party evaluations of Kimi K3 (as of July 23, 2026).Bolddenotes the best result per benchmark
and underline the second best. Baseline scores are as reported by each source under its own evaluation setup aText Arena entry is the
xhigh variant listed on the leaderboard. bText Arena entry is the high variant listed on the leaderboard. Numbers in parentheses are
Kimi K3’s rank on that leaderboard. Elo-style scores drift as additional matches accumulate.
Proprietary Open Weight
Benchmark Kimi K3
(max)
Claude Fable 5
(max)
GPT-5.6 Sol
(max)
Claude Opus
4.8 (max)
GPT-5.5
(xhigh)
GLM-5.2
(max)
Artificial Analysis
Intelligence Index v4.1 (#4/580) 57.1 59.9 58.9 55.7 55.0 51.1
Vals AI
Vals Index (#2/39) 74.7 75.173.1 70.4 68.0 65.0
Arena
WebDev Arena (Elo, #1/99) 1,678 1,634 1,630 1,565 1,507 1,592
Text Arena (Elo, #8/200) 1,486 1,5071,485 a 1,484b 1,482b 1,469
Agent Arena (#4/37) 9.1 12.7 10.1 9.8 8.8 6.5
the best score (91.2%) at $2.03 per task — half the cost of GPT-5.6 Sol (90.4%) and an order of magnitude cheaper
than the Claude models at their maximum effort. On GDPval-AA v2, Kimi K3 is within 50 Elo of GPT-5.6 Sol at 13%
lower cost, and 2.6× cheaper than Claude Fable 5. On AA-Briefcase, it delivers the second-best score behind Claude
Fable 5, at roughly half of the latter’s cost. Figure 13 summarizes the comparison.
$0 $2 $4 $6 $8 $10 $12
Cost per task (USD)
60%
62%
65%
68%
70%
72%
75%
78%
80%Score (%)
Kimi Code Bench 2.0 · Score vs Cost per Task
Kimi K3 @ Kimi Code
GLM-5.2 (max) @ Claude Code
Claude Opus 4.8 (max) @ Claude Code
Claude Fable 5 (max) @ Claude Code
low
high
max
Kimi K3
GLM-5.2 (max)
Claude Opus 4.8 (max)
Claude Fable 5 (max)
(a) Kimi Code Bench 2.0
$0 $5 $10 $15 $20 $25 $30
Cost per task (USD)
70%
75%
80%
85%
90%
95%Score (%)
BrowseComp · Score vs Cost per Task
Kimi K3 (max)
medium
high
max
GPT-5.6 Sol
1M tokens
3M tokens
10M tokens
Claude Mythos 5 (max)
medium
high
max
Claude Sonnet 5
medium
high
max
Claude Opus 4.8 (b) BrowseComp
$0 $2 $4 $6 $8
Cost per task (USD)
1450
1500
1550
1600
1650
1700
1750
1800Elo
GDPval-AA v2 · Elo vs Cost per Task
Claude Fable 5 (max)
GPT-5.6 Sol (max)
Kimi K3 (max)
Claude Sonnet 5 (max)
Claude Opus 4.8 (max)
GPT-5.5 (xhigh)
(c) GDPval-AA v2
$0 $5 $10 $15 $20 $25
Cost per task (USD)
1100
1200
1300
1400
1500
1600Elo
AA-Briefcase · Elo vs Cost per Task
Claude Fable 5 (max)
Kimi K3 (max)
GPT-5.6 Sol (max)
Claude Sonnet 5 (max)
Claude Opus 4.8 (max)
GPT-5.5 (xhigh) (d) AA-Briefcase
Figure 13: Score vs. per-task inference cost on Kimi Code Bench 2.0, BrowseComp, GDPval-AA v2, and AA-Briefcase. Kimi K3 is
marked with a star.
Overall, Kimi K3 sits on or near the cost-efficiency frontier across all four suites, delivering near-top scores at a fraction
of the cost of Claude Fable 5 in particular.
32
===== PAGE 33 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
0 5 10 15 200
10
20
30
40
50
60
64.1
Kimi K3+59.7%
Claude Fable 5+57.1%
GPT-5.5+30.8%
GPT-5.6 Sol+17.3%
Active hours
Speedup vs. FLA Triton Baseline (%)
Figure 14: Case study: GPU kernel optimization on AttnRes.
7 Case Studies
In this section, we present representative cases that demonstrate Kimi K3’s capabilities across diverse technical tasks.
GPU kernel optimizationWe tested the models’ ability to optimize GPU kernels. Each model works independently
in an identically configured sandbox, with a budget of up to 24 hours per task for profiling, rewriting, and benchmarking.
The evaluation covers four representative kernels: AttnRes, DeepSeek Sparse Attention (DSA), KDA, and MLA (with
head dimension 512), on an NVIDIA Hopper GPU and an alternative-vendor GPGPU. Kimi K3 substantially improved
performance across all four kernels, reducing AttnRes latency from 283.6 ms to 114.4 ms, cutting DSA and KDA
runtime by 55.1% and 73.6%, respectively, and reaching over half of peak TFLOPS on MLA. Across these tasks, Kimi
K3 matched Claude Fable 5 [16] (with fallback) and substantially outperformed Claude Opus 4.8 [17], GPT-5.6 Sol [40],
and GPT-5.5 [39]. Figure 14 compares the models’ optimization trajectories on AttnRes. Beyond the benchmark, an
early Kimi K3 checkpoint was already handling most of our kernel optimization work during late-stage development.
GPU compiler developmentKimi K3 developed MiniTriton 5, a compact Triton-like [124] compiler with a custom
tile-level Python frontend and layout system, a lightweight warp-level MLIR [65] annotation and optimization layer,
and a Parallel Thread Execution (PTX) code-generation pipeline. Built around the compiler is a dual-mode tensor
library with a PyTorch-like [90] high-level interface, whose eager and forward-only compiled paths share the same DSL
compiler and runtime. The library further provides reverse-mode autograd, neural-network modules, distributed-training
primitives over NCCL [83], and sparse and visualization primitives. On an NVIDIA L20, MiniTriton outperforms
PyTorch eager [90] and torch.compile [5] in geometric mean over its core benchmark suite. Its from-scratch
tensor-core matmul path approaches cuBLAS [22] at the largest shapes, reaching about 90% of the measured machine
roof, while its DSL-level KDA [64] prefill kernel outperforms a matched Triton reference by a clear margin. MiniTriton
also trains a GPT model end to end with a loss curve closely tracking the PyTorch reference, with full-model gradients
differing from torch autograd by no more than torch’s own fp32 rounding error ( 10−4), measured against an fp64
reference. Together, These results demonstrate that Kimi K3 can build a coherent end-to-end compiler — from DSL
frontend and IR passes to PTX codegen and CUDA runtime — rather than a collection of isolated kernels (Figure 15).
Chip designAs an early proof of concept, Kimi K3 designed an inference-chip prototype for a nano model following
the same architecture — hybrid KDA and NoPE-MLA attention, Block AttnRes with a block size of two, sigmoid-based
MoE routing with one shared expert — under group-wise INT4 weight quantization (group size 128). In a single
48-hour autonomous run with Kimi Code, Kimi K3 built, optimized, and verified the chip using open-source EDA tools
with the Nangate45 standard-cell library [81]. Within the 4 mm2 analytical area budget, the design closes timing at
100 MHz and achieves an RTL-simulated decode throughput of over 8,700 tokens/s, integrating 1.46M standard cells,
0.277 MiB of SRAM, and an INT4 MAC array with fused dequantization. The RTL code is available on GitHub6.
5https://github.com/MoonshotAI/minitriton
6https://github.com/MoonshotAI/nano-kpu
33
===== PAGE 34 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
10−2 10−1 100 101 102 103 104
Arithmetic intensity (FLOP/byte)
101
102
103
104
105
Achieved performance (GFLOP/s)
MiniTriton CUDA-core roofline — NVIDIA L20 (sm_89), fp32
method
torch eager
torch.compile
triton
minitriton
kernel
matmul
softmax
flash_attn
kda
solve_tril
gpt50m_step
spec sheet (theoretical boost): 59.8 TFLOP/s
DRAM 650 GB/s (measured)864 GB/s (spec)
measured peak: 38.1 TFLOP/s (cuBLAS 8192³)
5123
10243
20483 40963
BT=16
BT=32
BT=64
T=256
T=512 T=1024 T=2048
kda T=512
kda T=4096
1024×1024
65536×1024
1048576×1024
4096×4096
(almost coincide)
gpt50m step (fwd+bwd, e2e)
(a) CUDA-core roofline, fp32
102 103
Arithmetic intensity (FLOP/byte)
104
105
Achieved performance (GFLOP/s)
method
torch eager
torch.compile
triton
minitriton
method
torch eager
torch.compile
triton
minitriton
56.9 TFLOP/s
(cuBLAS 8192³)
spec sheet (theoretical boost): 59.8 TFLOP/s
650 GB/s (measured)
864 GB/s (spec)
5123
10243
20483
40963
KDA T=512
KDA T=4096
tf32 tier
102 103
Arithmetic intensity (FLOP/byte)
104
105
kernel
matmul
flash_attn
kda
gpt50m_step
115.9 TFLOP/s
(cuBLAS 8192³)
spec sheet (theoretical boost): 119.5 TFLOP/s
650 GB/s (measured)
864 GB/s (spec)
5123
10243
20483
40963
KDA T=512
KDA T=4096
bf16 tier
MiniTriton tensor-core roofline — NVIDIA L20 (sm_89) (b) Tensor-core rooflines, tf32/bf16
0 20 40 60 80 100
Step
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5Training loss
ln(vocab) = 4.63
train_gpt convergence — minitriton vs torch eager
torch eager
minitriton
(c) Convergence vs. torch eager
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
Step
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5Cross entropy
same init / global batch / LR schedule · 120 steps
train_gpt fp32 — single GPU vs DDP ×2
single GPU (1x L20), final 2.4876
DDP 2x L20 (NCCL), final 2.4870
max |diff| 0.0033, mean |diff| 0.0003 (d) Two-GPU DDP vs. single GPU
Figure 15: Case study: GPU compiler development with MiniTriton. (a) CUDA-core and (b) tensor-core rooflines of MiniTriton
kernels on an NVIDIA L20 (sm_89) against torch eager, torch.compile, Triton, and cuBLAS baselines (losing points included); (c)
training-loss curves of the character-level GPT trained with MiniTriton versus torch eager; (d) two-GPU data-parallel training built
on MiniTriton’s own distributed primitives (NCCL) versus single-GPU training.
Coding for researchTo reproduce the I–Love–Q universal relations in computational astrophysics, Kimi K3 reviewed
more than 20 papers and cross-validated their results, implemented the full numerical pipeline, evaluated over 300
equations of state, identified inconsistencies in published formulas, wrote more than 3,000 lines of Python, and produced
an interactive HTML dashboard — in about two hours, versus a typical one to two weeks for an experienced researcher.
Knowledge workIn Kimi Work, Kimi K3 produced an interactive research website covering 42 years of the AI
ASIC industry. The model completed more than 120 rounds of iterative refinement, drawing on a corpus of 87 quarterly
reports and 99 original PDFs (more than 11,000 pages) through over 2,800 web searches and over 1,100 terminal
queries. In a second case, Kimi K3 analyzed 391 gravitational-wave events in GWTC-5 using more than 20 concurrent
subagents, producing seven scientific visualizations, two summary tables, and a literature synthesis of over ten papers.
Video editing and motion designLeveraging its native multimodal architecture, Kimi K3 created a 3Blue1Brown-
style motion-graphics explainer of its own architecture, and edited its teaser video from 56 source clips. This involved
clip selection, motion-matched cuts, frame-accurate beat synchronization, audio processing, and multiple rounds of
revision. Producing a comparable high-density short video would typically take an experienced editor one to two days.
8 Conclusion
We present Kimi K3, an open 2.8-trillion-parameter Mixture-of-Experts model with native vision capabilities and a
1-million-token context window, built on Kimi Delta Attention and Attention Residuals. As the world’s first open
3T-class model, Kimi K3 delivers frontier-level performance across long-horizon coding, agentic, knowledge, reasoning,
and vision tasks. Although gaps to the strongest proprietary models remain, Kimi K3 establishes a new open frontier
within everyone’s reach. We hope it will empower the broader community in research, deployment, and innovation.
34
===== PAGE 35 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
References
[1]τ 3-Banking. Sierra. 2026.URL:https://taubench.com/blog/tau-knowledge.html.
[2] AA-Briefcase: Agentic Knowledge Work Benchmark. Artificial Analysis. 2026.URL: https : / /
artificialanalysis.ai/evaluations/aa-briefcase.
[3] Alexandru Agache et al. “Firecracker: Lightweight Virtualization for Serverless Applications”. In:17th USENIX
Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI). 2020, pp. 419–434.
[4]Agents’ Last Exam. UC Berkeley RDI. 2026.URL:https://agents-last-exam.org/leaderboard.
[5] Jason Ansel et al. “PyTorch 2: Faster Machine Learning Through Dynamic Python Bytecode Transformation
and Graph Compilation”. In:Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support
for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS). 2024.DOI:10.1145/3620665.3640366.
[6] Anthropic.Claude’s Extended Thinking. https://www.anthropic.com/research/visible-extended-
thinking. Accessed: 2026-07-23. Feb. 2025.
[7] Anthropic.Introducing Claude 4. https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-4. Accessed: 2026-07-23.
May 2025.
[8]Artificial Analysis. Artificial Analysis. 2026.URL:https://artificialanalysis.ai/.
[9] Artificial Analysis Long Context Reasoning (AA-LCR). Artificial Analysis. 2026.URL: https : / /
artificialanalysis.ai/evaluations/artificial-analysis-long-context-reasoning.
[10] Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio.Neural Machine Translation by Jointly Learning to
Align and Translate. 2014. arXiv:1409.0473 [cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0473.
[11] Chaithanya Bandi et al.MCP-Atlas: A Large-Scale Benchmark for Tool-Use Competency with Real MCP
Servers. 2026. arXiv:2602.00933 [cs.SE].
[12] Better MoE Model Inference with Warp Decode. Cursor. 2026.URL: https://cursor.com/blog/warp-
decode(visited on 07/20/2026).
[13] Liang Chen et al.BabyVision: Visual Reasoning Beyond Language. 2026. arXiv: 2601.06521 [cs.CV].URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.06521.
[14] Yutian Chen et al.FlashKDA: Flash Kimi Delta Attention. 2026.URL: https://github.com/MoonshotAI/
FlashKDA.
[15]Claude Code. Anthropic. 2026.URL:https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code.
[16] Claude Fable 5. Anthropic. 2026.URL: https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-fable-5-mythos-
5.
[17]Claude Opus 4.8. Anthropic. 2026.URL:https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-opus-4-8.
[18] Claude Sonnet 5. Anthropic. 2026.URL: https : / / www - cdn . anthropic . com /
283ef97c476cf442c91d9a37d5b214242a55bb92/Claude%20Sonnet%205%20System%20Card.pdf.
[19]Claude Sonnet 5. Anthropic. 2026.URL:https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-sonnet-5.
[20]Codex. OpenAI. 2026.URL:https://github.com/openai/codex.
[21]CorpFin v2. Vals AI. 2026.URL:https://www.vals.ai/benchmarks/corp_fin_v2.
[22]cuBLAS. NVIDIA. 2026.URL:https://developer.nvidia.com/cublas.
[23] Damai Dai et al.DeepSeekMoE: Towards Ultimate Expert Specialization in Mixture-of-Experts Language
Models. 2024. arXiv:2401.06066 [cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06066.
[24] Tri Dao and Albert Gu. “Transformers are SSMs: Generalized Models and Efficient Algorithms Through
Structured State Space Duality”. In:CoRRabs/2405.21060 (2024).DOI: 10.48550/ARXIV.2405.21060 .
arXiv:2405.21060.URL:https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.21060.
[25] Dao AI Lab.ReplaySSM: Cache SSM Inputs, Not State. https://tridao.me/blog/2026/replayssm/ .
June 2026.
[26] Yann N. Dauphin et al. “Language Modeling with Gated Convolutional Networks”. In:Proceedings of the 34th
International Conference on Machine Learning. V ol. 70. Proceedings of Machine Learning Research. PMLR,
2017, pp. 933–941.URL:https://proceedings.mlr.press/v70/dauphin17a.html.
[27] Soham De et al.Griffin: Mixing Gated Linear Recurrences with Local Attention for Efficient Language Models.
2024. arXiv:2402.19427 [cs.LG].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19427.
[28] DeepSeek-AI.DeepSeek-V2: A Strong, Economical, and Efficient Mixture-of-Experts Language Model. 2024.
arXiv:2405.04434 [cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.04434.
[29] DeepSeek-AI. “DeepSeek-V4: Towards Highly Efficient Million-Token Context Intelligence”. In:arXiv preprint
arXiv:2606.19348(2026).
35
===== PAGE 36 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
[30] DeepSeek-AI et al.DeepSeek-V3 Technical Report. 2024. arXiv: 2412.19437 [cs.CL] .URL: https://
arxiv.org/abs/2412.19437.
[31]DeepSWE Benchmark. Datacurve. 2026.URL:https://deepswe.datacurve.ai/.
[32] Venmugil Elango et al.LatentMoE: Toward Optimal Accuracy per FLOP and Parameter in Mixture of Experts.
2026. arXiv:2601.18089 [cs.LG].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.18089.
[33] William Fedus, Barret Zoph, and Noam Shazeer. “Switch Transformers: Scaling to Trillion Parameter Models
with Simple and Efficient Sparsity”. In:Journal of Machine Learning Research23.120 (2022), pp. 1–39.
[34] Weiqi Feng et al. “Optimus: Accelerating Large-Scale Multi-Modal LLM Training by Bubble Exploitation”.
In:2025 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 25). Boston, MA: USENIX Association, July
2025, pp. 161–177.ISBN: 978-1-939133-48-9.URL: https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc25/
presentation/feng.
[35]Finance Agent v2. Vals AI. 2026.URL:https://www.vals.ai/benchmarks/fabv2.
[36]FrontierSWE. 2026.URL:https://www.frontierswe.com/.
[37] Chaoyou Fu et al.Video-MME: The First-Ever Comprehensive Evaluation Benchmark of Multi-modal LLMs in
Video Analysis. 2024. arXiv:2405.21075 [cs.CV].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.21075.
[38]GLM-5.2. Z.ai. 2026.URL:https://z.ai/blog/glm-5.2.
[39]GPT-5.5. OpenAI. 2026.URL:https://openai.com/index/introducing-gpt-5-5/.
[40]GPT-5.6 Sol. OpenAI. 2026.URL:https://openai.com/index/previewing-gpt-5-6-sol/.
[41] Daya Guo et al. “DeepSeek-R1 incentivizes reasoning in LLMs through reinforcement learning”. In:Nature
645.8081 (2025), pp. 633–638.ISSN: 1476-4687.DOI: 10 . 1038 / s41586 - 025 - 09422 - z.URL: http :
//dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09422-z.
[42] Wentao Guo et al.SonicMoE: Accelerating MoE with IO and Tile-aware Optimizations. 2025. arXiv: 2512.
14080 [cs.LG].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.14080.
[43] Harvey LAB: Legal Agent Benchmark. Harvey. 2026.URL: https://www.harvey.ai/blog/introducing-
harveys-legal-agent-benchmark.
[44] Kaiming He et al.Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition. 2015. arXiv: 1512.03385 [cs.CV].URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385.
[45]Hermes Agent. Nous Research. 2026.URL:https://hermes-agent.nousresearch.com/docs/.
[46] Jordan Hoffmann et al.Training Compute-Optimal Large Language Models. 2022. arXiv: 2203 . 15556
[cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.15556.
[47] Shengding Hu, Yuge Tu, Xu Han, et al. “MiniCPM: Unveiling the Potential of Small Language Models with
Scalable Training Strategies”. In: (2024). arXiv:2404.06395 [cs.CL].
[48] Ailin Huang, Ang Li, Aobo Kong, et al. “Step 3.5 Flash: Open Frontier-Level Intelligence with 11B Active
Parameters”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.10604(2026).
[49] Yanping Huang et al. “Gpipe: Efficient training of giant neural networks using pipeline parallelism”. In:
Advances in neural information processing systems32 (2019).
[50] Benoit Jacob et al. “Quantization and Training of Neural Networks for Efficient Integer-Arithmetic-Only
Inference”. In:Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR).
2018, pp. 2704–2713.
[51] Sam Ade Jacobs et al.DeepSpeed Ulysses: System Optimizations for Enabling Training of Extreme Long
Sequence Transformer Models. 2023. arXiv: 2309.14509 [cs.LG].URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.
14509.
[52] Peijie Jiang et al.PowLU: An Activation Function for Stable Pre-Training of LLMs. 2026. arXiv: 2605.25704
[cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.25704.
[53]JobBench: Aligning Agent Work with Human Will. July 24, 2026.URL:https://job-bench.github.io/.
[54] Keller Jordan et al.Muon: An Optimizer for Hidden Layers in Neural Networks. 2024.URL: https : / /
kellerjordan.github.io/posts/muon/.
[55] Jared Kaplan et al.Scaling Laws for Neural Language Models. 2020. arXiv: 2001.08361 [cs.LG] .URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.08361.
[56] Angelos Katharopoulos et al. “Transformers are RNNs: Fast Autoregressive Transformers with Linear Atten-
tion”. In:Proceedings of ICML. Ed. by Hal Daumé III and Aarti Singh. PMLR, 2020, pp. 5156–5165.URL:
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v119/katharopoulos20a.html.
[57]Kimi CLI. Moonshot AI. 2026.URL:https://www.kimi.com/code.
[58] Kimi Team.Attention Residuals. Preprint. 2026.
36
===== PAGE 37 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
[59] Kimi Team.Kimi K2: Open Agentic Intelligence. 2025. arXiv:2507.20534 [cs.LG].
[60] Kimi Team. “Kimi K2.5: Visual Agentic Intelligence”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.02276(2026).
[61] Kimi Team.Kimi K3: Open Frontier Intelligence. Moonshot AI. July 16, 2026.URL: https://www.kimi.
com/blog/kimi-k3.
[62] Kimi Team. “Kimi-vl technical report”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.07491(2025).
[63] Kimi Team.PerceptionBench: Evaluating Atomic Visual Perception in Multimodal Large Language Models.
2026. arXiv:2607.24957 [cs.CV].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.24957.
[64] Kimi Team et al.Kimi Linear: An Expressive, Efficient Attention Architecture. 2025. arXiv: 2510.26692
[cs.CL].
[65] Chris Lattner et al. “MLIR: Scaling Compiler Infrastructure for Domain Specific Computation”. In:2021
IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization (CGO). 2021, pp. 2–14.DOI:
10.1109/CGO51591.2021.9370308.
[66]Legal Research Bench. Vals AI. 2026.URL:https://www.vals.ai/benchmarks/legal_research.
[67] Dmitry Lepikhin et al. “Gshard: Scaling giant models with conditional computation and automatic sharding”.
In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.16668(2020).
[68] Mike Lewis et al. “BASE Layers: Simplifying Training of Large, Sparse Models”. In:Proceedings of ICML.
2021.
[69] Huiba Li et al. “DADI: Block-Level Image Service for Agile and Elastic Application Deployment”. In:2020
USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC). 2020, pp. 727–740.
[70] Junlong Li et al.The Tool Decathlon: Benchmarking Language Agents for Diverse, Realistic, and Long-Horizon
Task Execution. ICLR 2026. 2025. arXiv:2510.25726 [cs.CL].
[71] Yuetai Li et al. “JobBench: Aligning Agent Work With Human Will”. In: (2026). arXiv:2605.26329 [cs.AI].
[72] Yuhui Li et al.EAGLE-3: Scaling up Inference Acceleration of Large Language Models via Training-Time Test.
2025. arXiv:2503.01840 [cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01840.
[73] Hao Liu, Matei Zaharia, and Pieter Abbeel. “Ring Attention with Blockwise Transformers for Near-Infinite
Context”. In: (2023). arXiv:2310.01889 [cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01889.
[74] Jingyuan Liu et al.Muon is Scalable for LLM Training. 2025. arXiv: 2502.16982 [cs.LG] .URL: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2502.16982.
[75]LMArena Leaderboard. LMArena. 2026.URL:https://lmarena.ai/leaderboard.
[76] Kevin Lu and Thinking Machines Lab.On-policy distillation. Thinking Machines Lab: Connectionism. 2025.
URL:https://thinkingmachines.ai/blog/on-policy-distillation/.
[77] Bohan Lyu et al. “MLS-Bench: A Holistic and Rigorous Assessment of AI Systems on Building Better AI”. In:
(2026). arXiv:2605.08678 [cs.LG].
[78] Eric Martin and Chris Cundy. “Parallelizing Linear Recurrent Neural Nets Over Sequence Length”. In:Pro-
ceedings of ICLR. 2018.URL:https://openreview.net/forum?id=HyUNwulC-.
[79] Mike A Merrill et al. “Terminal-Bench: Benchmarking Agents on Hard, Realistic Tasks in Command Line
Interfaces”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.11868(2026).
[80] Maxim Milakov and Natalia Gimelshein.Online normalizer calculation for softmax. 2018. arXiv: 1805.02867
[cs.PF].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.02867.
[81] Nangate, Inc.Nangate 45nm Open Cell Library. https : / / si2 . org / open - cell - library/. Version
PDKv1_3_v2010_12. Donated to and distributed by the Silicon Integration Initiative (Si2). 2010. (Visited on
07/27/2026).
[82] Deepak Narayanan et al. “Efficient large-scale language model training on gpu clusters using megatron-lm”. In:
Proceedings of the international conference for high performance computing, networking, storage and analysis.
2021, pp. 1–15.
[83] NCCL: The NVIDIA Collective Communications Library. NVIDIA. 2026.URL: https://developer.nvidia.
com/nccl.
[84] OpenAI.Introducing OpenAI o3 and o4-mini. Apr. 2025.URL: https://openai.com/index/introducing-
o3-and-o4-mini/.
[85] OpenAI.Learning to Reason with LLMs. https://openai.com/index/learning- to- reason- with-
llms/. Accessed: 2026-07-23. 2024.
[86]OpenAI Harmony Response Format. OpenAI. 2025.URL:https://github.com/openai/harmony.
[87]OpenClaw. OpenClaw. 2026.URL:https://docs.openclaw.ai/.
37
===== PAGE 38 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
[88] Krista Opsahl-Ong et al. “OfficeQA Pro: An Enterprise Benchmark for End-to-End Grounded Reasoning”. In:
(2026). arXiv:2603.08655.
[89] Linke Ouyang et al.OmniDocBench: Benchmarking Diverse PDF Document Parsing with Comprehensive
Annotations. 2025. arXiv:2412.07626 [cs.CV].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07626.
[90] Adam Paszke et al.PyTorch: An Imperative Style, High-Performance Deep Learning Library. 2019. arXiv:
1912.01703 [cs.LG].
[91] Tejal Patwardhan et al.GDPval: Evaluating AI Model Performance on Real-World Economically Valuable
Tasks. 2025. arXiv:2510.04374 [cs.LG].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.04374.
[92] Bo Peng et al.RWKV-7 "Goose" with Expressive Dynamic State Evolution. 2025. arXiv: 2503.14456 [cs.CL].
[93] Bowen Peng et al. “Yarn: Efficient context window extension of large language models”. In:arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.00071(2023).
[94] Long Phan et al.Humanity’s Last Exam. 2025. arXiv: 2501.14249 [cs.LG].URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2501.14249.
[95]PostTrainBench. 2026.URL:https://posttrainbench.com/.
[96]ProgramBench. Vals AI. 2026.URL:https://www.vals.ai/benchmarks/programbench.
[97] Ruoyu Qin et al.Mooncake: A KVCache-centric Disaggregated Architecture for LLM Serving. 2024. arXiv:
2407.00079 [cs.DC].
[98] Zhen Qin et al.HGRN2: Gated Linear RNNs with State Expansion. 2024. arXiv: 2404.07904 [cs.CL].URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.07904.
[99] Haiquan Qiu and Quanming Yao. “Why Low-Precision Transformer Training Fails: An Analysis on Flash
Attention”. In:International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR). 2026. arXiv: 2510.04212
[cs.LG].
[100] Zihan Qiu et al.Gated Attention for Large Language Models: Non-linearity, Sparsity, and Attention-Sink-Free.
2025. arXiv:2505.06708 [cs.CL].
[101] Samyam Rajbhandari et al. “Zero: Memory optimizations toward training trillion parameter models”. In:SC20:
International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis. IEEE. 2020,
pp. 1–16.
[102] David Rein et al. “Gpqa: A graduate-level google-proof q&a benchmark”. In:First Conference on Language
Modeling. 2024.
[103] Jonathan Roberts et al.ZeroBench: An Impossible Visual Benchmark for Contemporary Large Multimodal
Models. 2025. arXiv:2502.09696 [cs.CV].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.09696.
[104] Bita Darvish Rouhani et al. “Microscaling Data Formats for Deep Learning”. In:arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.10537(2023). arXiv:2310.10537 [cs.LG].
[105] Alexander Samarin et al.LK Losses: Direct Acceptance Rate Optimization for Speculative Decoding. 2026.
arXiv:2602.23881 [cs.LG].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.23881.
[106] Imanol Schlag, Kazuki Irie, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. “Linear Transformers Are Secretly Fast Weight Program-
mers”. In:Proceedings of ICML. Ed. by Marina Meila and Tong Zhang. PMLR, 2021, pp. 9355–9366.URL:
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v139/schlag21a.html.
[107] Manasi Sharma et al. “ResearchRubrics: A Benchmark of Prompts and Rubrics For Evaluating Deep Research
Agents”. In:The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations. 2026.URL: https :
//openreview.net/forum?id=ErnvfmSX0P.
[108] Noam Shazeer.GLU Variants Improve Transformer. 2020. arXiv: 2002 . 05202 [cs.LG].URL: https :
//arxiv.org/abs/2002.05202.
[109] Daniel Shepard and Robin Salimans. “AutomationBench”. In: (2026). arXiv:2604.18934 [cs.AI].
[110] Kean Shi et al.SaaS-Bench: Can Computer-Use Agents Leverage Real-World SaaS to Solve Professional
Workflows?2026. arXiv:2605.15777 [cs.AI].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.15777.
[111] Benjamin F. Spector et al. “ThunderKittens: Simple, Fast, and Adorable Kernels”. In:The Thirteenth Inter-
national Conference on Learning Representations. 2025.URL: https://openreview.net/forum?id=
0fJfVOSUra.
[112] Jianlin Su.Muon Optimizer Guide: Quick Start and Key Details. Blog post (in Chinese). Nov. 2025.URL:
https://kexue.fm/archives/11416.
[113] Jianlin Su.Travels in MoE: 6. Promoting Load Balance via Optimal Assignment. Blog post (in Chinese). Feb.
2026.URL:https://spaces.ac.cn/archives/11619.
[114] Hanchi Sun et al.Expert Threshold Routing for Autoregressive Language Modeling with Dynamic Computation
Allocation and Load Balancing. 2026. arXiv:2603.11535 [cs.AI].
38
===== PAGE 39 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
[115] Weigao Sun et al. “LASP-2: Rethinking Sequence Parallelism for Linear Attention and Its Hybrid”. In: (2025).
arXiv:2502.07563 [cs.LG].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07563.
[116] Weigao Sun et al. “Linear Attention Sequence Parallelism”. In: (2024). arXiv: 2404.02882 [cs.LG].URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.02882.
[117] Yiyou Sun et al.Agents’ Last Exam. 2026. arXiv: 2606.05405 [cs.AI].URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/
2606.05405.
[118] Yuan Sun.Binary-Integer-Programming Based Algorithm for Expert Load Balancing in Mixture-of-Experts
Models. 2025. arXiv:2502.15451 [cs.LG].
[119]SWE Marathon. 2026.URL:https://www.swe-marathon.org/.
[120] Kimi Team.Kimi k1.5: Scaling Reinforcement Learning with LLMs. 2025. arXiv: 2501.12599 [cs.AI].URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12599.
[121] The Tool Decathlon: Benchmarking Language Agents for Diverse, Realistic, and Long-Horizon Task Execution.
July 24, 2026.URL:https://toolathlon.xyz/introduction.
[122] Thinking Machines Lab.Inkling: Our Open-Weights Model. https : / / thinkingmachines . ai / news /
introducing-inkling/. Accessed: 2026-07-23. July 2026.
[123] Minyang Tian et al.SciCode: A Research Coding Benchmark Curated by Scientists. 2024. arXiv: 2407.13168
[cs.AI].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.13168.
[124] Philippe Tillet, Hsiang-Tsung Kung, and David Cox. “Triton: An Intermediate Language and Compiler for
Tiled Neural Network Computations”. In:Proceedings of the 3rd ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop on
Machine Learning and Programming Languages (MAPL). 2019.
[125] UK AI Security Institute and U.S. Center for AI Standards and Innovation.Preliminary Assessment of Kimi
K3’s Cyber Capabilities. https://www.aisi.gov.uk/blog/preliminary-assessment-of-kimi-k3s-
cyber-capabilities. July 2026.
[126]Vals AI. Vals AI. 2026.URL:https://www.vals.ai/.
[127] Ashish Vaswani et al. “Attention is All you Need”. In:Advances in NeurIPS. Ed. by I. Guyon et al. Curran
Associates, Inc., 2017.URL: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2017/file/
3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Paper.pdf.
[128] Nikhita Vedula et al.DeepSearchQA: Bridging the Comprehensiveness Gap for Deep Research Agents.
2025.URL: https://storage.googleapis.com/deepmind- media/DeepSearchQA/DeepSearchQA_
benchmark_paper.pdf.
[129] Bertie Vidgen et al.APEX-Agents. 2026. arXiv:2601.14242 [cs.CL].
[130] Ke Wang et al. “Measuring Multimodal Mathematical Reasoning with MATH-Vision Dataset”. In:Advances
in NeurIPS. Ed. by A. Globerson et al. V ol. 37. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024, pp. 95095–95169.DOI: 10.
52202/079017- 3014.URL: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/file/
ad0edc7d5fa1a783f063646968b7315b-Paper-Datasets_and_Benchmarks_Track.pdf.
[131] Lei Wang et al. “TileLang: A Composable Tiled Programming Model for AI Systems”. In:arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.17577(2025).URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.17577.
[132] Zirui Wang et al.CharXiv: Charting Gaps in Realistic Chart Understanding in Multimodal LLMs. 2024. arXiv:
2406.18521 [cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18521.
[133] Jason Wei et al.BrowseComp: A Simple Yet Challenging Benchmark for Browsing Agents. 2025. arXiv:
2504.12516 [cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.12516.
[134] Xinming Wei et al.UltraEP: Unleash MoE Training and Inference on Rack-Scale Nodes with Near-Optimal
Load Balancing. 2026. arXiv:2606.04101 [cs.DC].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.04101.
[135] Zijian Wu et al. “MCPMark: A benchmark for stress-testing realistic and comprehensive mcp use”. In:arXiv
preprint arXiv:2509.24002(2025).
[136] B. Xiao et al. “MiMo-V2-Flash Technical Report”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.02780(2026).
[137] Xiaomi MiMo Team.MiMo-V2.5-Pro. https://huggingface.co/collections/XiaomiMiMo/mimo-v25.
2026.
[138] Tianbao Xie et al. “Introducing OSWorld-Verified”. In:xlang.ai(July 2025).URL: https://xlang.ai/blog/
osworld-verified.
[139] Zijie Yan et al.Scalable Training of Mixture-of-Experts Models with Megatron Core. 2026. arXiv:2603.07685
[cs.DC].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.07685.
[140] Songlin Yang, Jan Kautz, and Ali Hatamizadeh. “Gated Delta Networks: Improving Mamba2 with Delta Rule”.
In:Proceedings of ICLR. 2025.URL:https://openreview.net/forum?id=r8H7xhYPwz.
39
===== PAGE 40 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
[141] Songlin Yang and Yu Zhang.FLA: A Triton-Based Library for Hardware-Efficient Implementations of Linear
Attention Mechanism. Jan. 2024.URL:https://github.com/fla-org/flash-linear-attention.
[142] Songlin Yang et al. “Gated Linear Attention Transformers with Hardware-Efficient Training”. In:Proceedings
of ICML. PMLR, 2024.
[143] Songlin Yang et al. “Parallelizing Linear Transformers with the Delta Rule over Sequence Length”. In:
Proceedings of NeurIPS. 2024.
[144] Yaoyu Wang.Context Parallelism for DeltaNet. 2025.URL:https://yywangcs.notion.site/DeltaNet-
2a9fc9f5d8058013a498f34e0b25bd52.
[145] Mengqi Yuan et al.OSWorld2.0: Benchmarking Computer Use Agents on Long-Horizon Real-World Tasks.
2026. arXiv:2606.29537 [cs.AI].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.29537.
[146] Xiang Yue et al.MMMU-Pro: A More Robust Multi-discipline Multimodal Understanding Benchmark. 2024.
arXiv:2409.02813 [cs.CL].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02813.
[147] Aohan Zeng et al.GLM-5: from Vibe Coding to Agentic Engineering. 2026. arXiv: 2602.15763 [cs.LG] .
URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.15763.
[148] Biao Zhang and Rico Sennrich. “Root mean square layer normalization”. In:Advances in NeurIPS32 (2019).
[149] Chenggang Zhao et al.DeepEP: an efficient expert-parallel communication library. https://github.com/
deepseek-ai/DeepEP. 2025.
[150] Yilun Zhao et al. “MMVU: Measuring Expert-Level Multi-Discipline Video Understanding”. In:Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). June 2025, pp. 8475–8489.
[151] Runjie Zhou et al.WorldVQA: Measuring Atomic World Knowledge in Multimodal Large Language Models.
2026. arXiv:2602.02537 [cs.CV].URL:https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.02537.
[152] Jian Zhu et al. “SpreadsheetBench 2: Evaluating Agents on End-to-End Business Spreadsheet Workflows”. In:
(2026). arXiv:2606.29955 [cs.SE].
40
===== PAGE 41 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
A Contributions
The listing of contributors is in alphabetical order based on their last names.
Tongtong Bai
Yifan Bai
Yiping Bao
M. C.
Jianfeng Cai
Xinyuan Cai
Peizhou Cao
Yuxuan Cao
Ziwei Chai
Y . Charles
H.S. Che
Guanduo Chen
Guangyu Chen
Guanzheng Chen
Huarong Chen
Jia Chen
Jianlong Chen
Jun Chen
Kexin Chen
Peng Chen
Ruijue Chen
Wentao Chen
Xin Chen
Yang Chen
Yanru Chen
Yifei Chen
Yingjiang Chen
Yuankun Chen
Yujie Chen
Yutian Chen
Zhirong Chen
Dazhi Cheng
Yean Cheng
Jialei Cui
Jingbing Cui
Anqi Dai
Jiaqi Deng
Hao Ding
Rui Ding
Shaofeng Ding
Mengfan Dong
Mengnan Dong
Yuhao Dong
Yuxin Dong
Ang’ang Du
Chenzhuang Du
Dikang Du
Jusen Du
Yulun Du
Yu Fan
Jing Feng
Qiulin Feng
Yichen Feng
Kelin Fu
Qiang Fu
Fuxuan Gao
Hongcheng Gao
Jingyue Gao
Tong Gao
Weijia Gao
Shangyi Geng
Jie Gong
Linghu Gong
Shengao Gong
Xiaochen Gong
Qizheng Gu
Yicheng Gu
Shuhao Guan
Haiqing Guo
Shiqi Guo
Xiang Guo
Zhengyan Guo
Beixi Hao
Wenxin Hao
Xiaoru Hao
Dailan He
Haotian He
Lehan He
Qi He
Weiran He
Xinran He
Xinyi He
Yibo He
Yunjia He
Chao Hong
Tiange Hong
Hao Hu
Jiaxi Hu
Ruikun Hu
Weiming Hu
Yangyang Hu
Zhenxing Hu
Liang Hua
Jinbin Huang
Ke Huang
Ruiyuan Huang
Siying Huang
Weixiao Huang
Yan Huang
Zhengjie Huang
Zhiqi Huang
Yulong Hui
Chaobo Jia
Yutong Jiang
Zhejun Jiang
Zuoyou Jiang
Wenyi Jin
Xinyi Jin
Yu Jing
Huanjun Kong
Guokun Lai
Aidi Li
Cheng Li
Chengyuan Li
Cong Li
Fang Li
Guanyu Li
Haoyang Li
Jia Li
Junxiong Li
Lei Li
Letian Li
Lincan Li
Weihong Li
Wentao Li
Xintong Li
Yang Li
Yishen Li
Yiwei Li
Yuxiao Li
Zhaowei Li
Zhaoxi Li
Zheming Li
Zhengxiao Li
Zhiyuan Li
Jiawei Lin
Xiaohan Lin
Yibo Lin
Zichao Lin
Ziyan Lin
Bill Liu
Boxiao Liu
Chuan Liu
Liang Liu
Shaowei Liu
Shudong Liu
Shuran Liu
Tianwei Liu
Weizhou Liu
Yangyang Liu
Yanming Liu
Yibo Liu
Yipeng Liu
Zhengying Liu
Zhiheng Liu
Enzhe Lu
Haoyu Lu
Linqiang Lu
Tingzhan Lu
Zhiyuan Lu
Aotian Luo
G. Luo
Junyu Luo
Yifan Luo
B. Lyu
Wenzhou Lyu
Shaoguang Mao
Yuan Mei
Xin Men
Minqing Ni
Yixuan Niu
Siyuan Pan
Shujun Peng
Zhangyang Qi
Ruoyu Qin
ZeChao Qin
Zeyu Qin
Haiquan Qiu
Jianxin Qiu
Jiezhong Qiu
Bowen Qu
Yuhao Qu
Zeyu Shang
Youbo Shao
Han Shen
Jincheng Shi
Juanfeng Shi
Lidong Shi
Shengyuan Shi
Wingchun Siu
Pengwei Song
Xiaoxi Song
Jianlin Su
Yunfeng Su
Zhaochen Su
Lin Sui
Jingsong Sun
Junyao Sun
Shaoning Sun
Shuzhe Sun
Tongyu Sun
Yujun Sun
Yunpeng Tai
Chuning Tang
Heyi Tang
Sirui Tang
Zecheng Tang
Chaoran Tian
Rongpeng Tian
Yu Tian
Wei Tu
Chensi Wang
Chuang Wang
Chunjie Wang
Dinglu Wang
Feng Wang
Hailong Wang
Haiming Wang
Hao Wang
Hao Wang
41
===== PAGE 42 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Huaqing Wang
Hui Wang
Jiayi Wang
Jinglong Wang
Jinhong Wang
Jiuzheng Wang
Linian Wang
Shaobo Wang
Shenzhi Wang
Shuyi Wang
Si Wang
Siyuan Wang
Tianfu Wang
Wenjue Wang
Xingran Wang
Xinmei Wang
Xinyuan Wang
Xusheng Wang
Yalin Wang
Yangkun Wang
Yao Wang
Yaoyu Wang
Yejie Wang
Yiqin Wang
Yucheng Wang
Yuzhi Wang
Zhaoji Wang
Zhaowei Wang
Zhengtao Wang
Zhenhao Wang
Zhongsheng Wang
Zifan Wang
Chu Wei
Ming Wei
Shouxin Wei
Zichen Wen
Fan Wu
Haoning Wu
Rucong Wu
Wenhao Wu
Xiaoxue Wu
Yingcong Wu
Yongqi Wu
Yuxin Wu
Zijian Wu
Xinglang Xian
Chenxuan Xiang
Yuye Xiang
Bocheng Xiao
Chenjun Xiao
Xin Xiao
Jin Xie
Xiaotong Xie
Yifeng Xie
Zhe Xie
Bowei Xing
Yiming Xiong
Baosheng Xu
Boyu Xu
Jiale Xu
Jianfan Xu
Jing Xu
Jinjing Xu
L.H. Xu
Qingtao Xu
Shuyao Xu
Suting Xu
Tiantian Xu
Tianxiang Xu
Weixin Xu
Xinran Xu
Yangchuan Xu
Ye Xu
Yueni Xu
Ziyao Xu
Haonan Xue
Junjie Yan
Yaoyao Yan
Fan Yang
Guangyao Yang
Hao Yang
Junwei Yang
Ruoyu Yang
Wenjie Yang
Xiaofei Yang
Xinyu Yang
Yi Yang
Yiling Yang
Ying Yang
Yuchen Yang
Zhen Yang
Zhilin Yang
Zian Yang
Zuhao Yang
Haotian Yao
Dan Ye
Haoran Ye
Wenjie Ye
Zhanbo Ye
Bohong Yin
Haoxiang Yin
Xietong Yin
Chengzhen Yu
Haozhen Yu
Longhui Yu
Shengnan Yu
Shuying Yu
Tianxiang Yu
Enming Yuan
Mengjie Yuan
Tongtian Yue
Wei Yue
Yang Yue
Dunyuan Zha
Haobing Zhan
B.H. Zhang
Dehao Zhang
Fei Zhang
Hao Zhang
Haoyuan Zhang
Huanyu Zhang
Jiapei Zhang
Jiaxuan Zhang
Jin Zhang
Kaiyi Zhang
Miaozhen Zhang
Puqi Zhang
Qinglei Zhang
Rong Zhang
Rui Zhang
Shaoshuai Zhang
Shiyi Zhang
Xiaobin Zhang
Xiaoyun Zhang
Y . Zhang
Yangkun Zhang
Ye Zhang
Yichi Zhang
Yikun Zhang
Yizhi Zhang
Yongting Zhang
Yu Zhang
Yutao Zhang
Yutong Zhang
Zheng Zhang
Zijing Zhang
Bin Zhao
Chenguang Zhao
Feifan Zhao
Jinglun Zhao
Jinxiang Zhao
Shuai Zhao
Wenshuo Zhao
Xiangyu Zhao
Xuanle Zhao
Yikai Zhao
Zijia Zhao
Haozhi Zheng
Huabin Zheng
Ruihan Zheng
Shaojie Zheng
Tengyang Zheng
Haofeng Zhong
Lei Zhong
Longguang Zhong
M. Zhou
Qiankang Zhou
Runjie Zhou
Ruozhang Zhou
Xinyu Zhou
Yiqiao Zhou
Zaida Zhou
Jinguo Zhu
Liya Zhu
Xinhao Zhu
Yangjunfeng Zhu
Yuxuan Zhu
Zhen Zhu
Chen Zhuang
Weiyu Zhuang
Xinxing Zu
Kimi K3
42
===== PAGE 43 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
B Details of Sigmoid Tanh Unit GLU
The design goal of SiTU-GLU (§2.3.2) is to bound the SwiGLU product without discarding the characteristic shape of
Swish: an approximately linear response around the origin and a vanishing negative tail. Fig. 4 shows the gate and up
branches together with their complete scalar responses.
Smoothly capping both branchesSiTU caps the linear factor of Swish as β1 tanh(Wgx/β1) while retaining the
sigmoid factor [61]. Because the sigmoid already drives the negative gate response toward zero, this change primarily
controls large positive activations without removing the negative tail. Kimi K3 applies the same construction to the up
branch asβ 2 tanh(Wux/β2), preventing either branch from dominating the product.
Local and limiting behaviorFor a scalarznear the origin, the scaledtanhsatisfies
βtanh
z
β

=z+O
z3
β2

.(18)
SiTU-GLU therefore matches SwiGLU to first order around the origin. It also recovers SwiGLU pointwise as
β1,β 2→∞.
Bounded outputSince|tanh(z)|<1and0<Sigmoid(z)<1, every output coordinate satisfies
∥SiTU-GLU(x)∥∞≤β 1β2 = 100,(19)
forβ1 = 4 andβ2 = 25. Unlike hard clamping of gate pre-activations, the smooth cap preserves nonzero gradients
away from saturation boundaries, which we find to give better training behavior.
C Derivation of Quantile Balancing
This appendix derives the Quantile Balancing (QB) updates used in §2.3 from optimal balanced assignment, fol-
lowing [113]; the assignment perspective on expert load balancing goes back to BASE Layers [68] and BIP [118].
Lets∈R m×n collect the router scores ofm tokens overn experts, where each token selects exactlyk experts and
xi,j∈{0,1} indicates whether tokeni is assigned to expertj. The maximum-score balanced assignment, in which
each expert serves exactlymk/ntokens (assumed integral), is
max
xi,j∈{0,1}
X
i,j
xi,jsi,j s.t.
X
j
xi,j =k,
X
i
xi,j = mk
n .(20)
Linear relaxation and dualityRelaxing xi,j∈{0,1} toxi,j∈[0,1] turns Eq. 20 into a linear program, whose
optimum is integral by the standard integrality of the bipartiteb-matching polytope; the relaxation is therefore exact.
Introducing free multipliers αi andβj for the token- and expert-side equality constraints, respectively, the relaxed
problem can be written in max–min form as
max
xi,j∈[0,1]
min
αi,βj
X
i,j
xi,jsi,j−
X
i
αi
X
j
xi,j−k

−
X
j
βj
X
i
xi,j− mk
n

.(21)
The objective is linear in each of x,α, and β, and the feasible sets are convex, so the minimax theorem allows
exchanging the order of optimization:
min
αi,βj
max
xi,j∈[0,1]
X
i,j
xi,j
 
si,j−αi−βj

+k
X
i
αi + mk
n
X
j
βj.(22)
The inner maximum is separable over entries, withx∗
i,j = 1 ifsi,j−αi−βj >0 andx∗
i,j = 0 ifsi,j−αi−βj <0 ;
the tie case has measure zero in practice. Substitutingx∗ gives the convex dual objective
min
αi,βj
L(α,β) :=
X
i,j
max
 
0, si,j−αi−βj

+k
X
i
αi + mk
n
X
j
βj.(23)
43
===== PAGE 44 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
Algorithm 1:The alternating QB solver.
Input:score matrixs∈R m×n
Output:assignmentx∈{0,1} m×n
1Initializeβ=0 1×n;
2fort= 1,2,···,Tdo
3α←desc_sort(s−β,axis=1) [:,k:k+1]
4β←desc_sort(s−α,axis=0) [mk/n:mk/n+1]
5end
6returnxwithx i,j = 1ifj∈argtop k(si−β),and0otherwise
Exact coordinate minimizationWe minimize Eq. 23 by alternately solving for α withβ fixed and vice versa; each
subproblem admits a closed-form exact solution. Withβ fixed, the problem decouples over tokens, and for tokeni we
solve
min
α
kα+
X
j
max
 
0, si,j−βj−α

.(24)
This objective is piecewise linear inα with slopek minus the number of marginssi,j−βj exceedingα; it is therefore
minimized exactly whenk margins lie aboveα, i.e., for anyα∗
i between thek-th and (k+1)-th largest entries ofsi−β .
By convention we take the(k+1)-th largest entry, which is equivalently the(1−k/n)-th quantile:
α∗
i = quantile1−k/n
 
si−β

.(25)
Symmetrically, withα fixed, expertj solves minβ mk
n β+P
i max(0,si,j−αi−β), whose minimizer is the(mk/n+1)-
th largest entry ofs :,j−α, again the(1−k/n)-th quantile:
β∗
j = quantile1−k/n
 
s:,j−α

.(26)
Both updates are thus the same quantile along the token and expert axes, respectively, which gives the method its name.
Fig. 5 illustrates the expert-side update as equalizing the accepted upper tail of each expert’s margin distribution, and
Alg. 1 summarizes the resulting alternating solver.
From assignment to routingAt the optimum of Eq. 23, x∗
i,j = 1 if and only ifsi,j−α∗
i−β∗
j >0 ; combined with
the token constraintP
jx∗
i,j =k , the selected experts are exactly the Top-k entries ofsi−β∗. Routing therefore
requires only the expert thresholds β∈R n (equivalently, the biasb=−β of Eq. 13), while the token thresholds
α∈R m are intermediate variables tied to the dynamic training batch and are discarded. This asymmetry preserves
train–inference consistency: at deployment, routing is a fixed Top- k selection with a frozen bias, and no quantile
computation is needed.
Relation to sign-based loss-free updatesThe expert-side subproblem underlying Eq. 26 has (sub)gradient
∂L
∂βj
= mk
n −
mX
i=1
χ
 
si,j−αi−βj >0

,(27)
i.e., the target load minus the observed load of the expertj. A SignSGD step on this objective recovers the fixed-step
sign update of auxiliary-loss-free balancing [30], up to the sign conventionb=−β : the sign update retains only the
direction of the load error in Eq. 27, whereas QB jumps directly to the exact coordinate minimizer of the same dual
objective. This view explains both why QB requires no learning-rate-like hyperparameter and why it equilibrates within
a few update steps even for nearly 103 experts. QB is likewise related to BIP [118], which solves the same assignment
with inequality constraintsP
jxi,j≤k andP
ixi,j≤mk/n ; the induced non-negativity constraints onα andβ add
a max(0,·) clipping to both updates, which can only suppress over-selected experts without promoting under-selected
ones, and markedly slows equilibration in our experiments. Finally, the resulting fixed-Top- k routing is related to
expert-specific threshold routing but differs from Expert Threshold routing, which maintains EMA thresholds and
permits a variable number of selected experts per token [114].
D Histogram-Based Quantile Estimation
The QB update of Eq. 14 asks for a quantile taken over the whole training step: for each of then experts, the (1−k/n) -th
quantile of the marginssi,j−αi, where the token countm spans millions of tokens sharded across data-parallel ranks
44
===== PAGE 45 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
and gradient-accumulation steps. GatheringO(mn) margins for an exact quantile is impractical inside the training loop.
The key observation is that the update never needs the margins themselves, only their per-expert distribution, which a
histogram summarizes at fixed cost. Kimi K3 therefore maintains a binned histogram per expert and reads the quantile
from it. Concretely, we histogram therequired bias ri,j :=α i−si,j, the bias that would place expertj exactly at token
i’s cutoff; negating the margins reverses their order, so the QB targetbbj of Eq. 14 is exactly the(k/n)-quantile ofr :,j.
Binning rangeThe first question is which interval to bin over, and here the required bias helps: its range is bounded
by the current bias itself. Router scores are sigmoid outputs, so si,j∈(0,1) , and the cutoffαi is itself the biased score
si,j′ +bj′ of some expertj′, so it lies in (bmin,1 +b max), withbmin andbmax the extremes of the current bias. Every
ri,j therefore falls in [bmin−1, bmax + 1]. We partition this interval intoB uniform bins, which we find sufficient in
practice, and recompute the range every step, so the bin widthw= (b max−b min + 2)/B stays adapted to the bias as it
spreads to correct imbalance.
Accumulation and recoveryThe rest of the procedure follows the structure of a training step. During each forward
pass, every rank scatter-adds its local ri,j values into a per-expert count matrix H∈N n×B, accumulating over all
micro-batches with no communication. At the end of the step, a single all-reduce sums the local counts into the global
histogram, and every rank recovers the quantile from the same pooled counts. Each expert’s histogram counts every
token once, so the target rank is exactly the target loadq=mk/n of § 2.3.3, now taken over the full step: we select the
first bin whose cumulative count reaches⌈q⌉ and interpolate linearly within it. If binβj is selected, with cumulative
countcj before it andhj counts inside it, then
bbj =b min−1 +

βj + clip
 q−cj
hj
,0,1

w,
and the resulting biases are mean-centered as in Eq. 14.
PropertiesThree properties make this estimator practical at scale. First, it is accurate: the cumulative counts are
exact at bin edges, so the true quantile and its estimate lie in the same bin and the error is bounded by the bin width
w; withB= 1000 this is at most a few 10−3, and we observe no measurable residual load imbalance. Second, it is
cheap: the only communication is one integer all-reduce ofnB values per layer per step, independent ofm, which in
our configuration is below 1% of the cost of exchanging the raw margins over a process group every micro-batch, the
natural alternative. Third, it estimates the right quantity: because counts are additive, the global histogram is exactly
invariant to how tokens are partitioned across ranks or accumulation steps, and the estimate is the quantile of the pooled
global batch rather than an average of per-rank quantiles, which generally differs. As a further refinement, maintaining
an exponential moving average of the estimated quantiles across steps reduces batch-to-batch sampling noise and can
improve load balance still further.
E MoonEP General Upper Bound Proof
Letmr(P) denote the number of redundant experts placed on rankr under planP . For a router outputI, the planning
objective is to minimize the maximum number of redundant experts on any rank, i.e.,M(I) = minP maxr{mr(P)} .
We prove thatM(I)≤E/R always holds (Theorem 1) and that this bound is essentially tight: there exist router outputs
for whichM=⌈E(R−1)/R 2⌉≈E/R(Theorem 2).
Proof of Theorem 1 (General Upper Bound)The goal is to prove that M(I)≤E/R holds for any router output
I. Key lemma: there exists a plan P∗ such that every EP rank receives exactly the same number of tokens (S×K ),
and the remote tokens of each rank come from only one other EP rank. The construction is as follows: initially, every
rank holds only local tokens, and ranks are classified as underloaded or overloaded accordingly. We repeatedly pick an
underloaded rank and an overloaded rank, and migrate tokens from the overloaded rank to fill the underloaded rank
exactly up to the balanced valueS×K ; the overloaded rank may remain overloaded, become exactly balanced, or
become underloaded, and is put back into the corresponding set. This is repeated until all ranks are perfectly balanced.
Each fill makes one underloaded rank balanced and it never changes afterwards, so the process terminates after at most
R−1 fills; meanwhile, each rank is filled at most once, so its remote tokens come from a single rank, which proves the
lemma. Consequently, supposing all remote tokens of rankr come from ranks; these tokens belong to at mostE/R
local experts on ranks, hencem r(P∗)≤E/R, and therefore
M(I) = min
P
max
r

mr(P)
	
≤max
r

mr(P∗)
	
≤ E
R (28)
45
===== PAGE 46 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
(a) Context layout
global option messages
tool-declare thinking-effort
input messages
system user
tool assistant
dynamic tool-declare
one-shot option messages
tool-choice response-format
[open]think[sep] / [open]response[sep]
generation prefix
(b) Assistant message
[open]message role="assistant"[sep]
[open]think[sep]
[close]think[sep]
[open]response[sep]
[close]response[sep]
[open]tools[sep]
···
[close]tools[sep]
[close]message[sep] [end_of_msg]
(c) Tools channel
[open]tools[sep]
[open]call tool="python" index="1"[sep]
[open]argument key="code" type="string"[sep]
···
[close]argument[sep]
[close]call[sep]
[open]call tool="search" index="2"[sep]
[open]argument key="options" type="object"[sep]
{"timeout": 150}
[close]argument[sep]
[close]call[sep]
[close]tools[sep]
Figure 16: Structure of the Kimi K3 chat template.(a)Context layout: global option messages precede the input messages, while
one-shot option messages follow them, so that per-request options leave the history KV cache intact; dynamically loaded tools are
injected mid-session as input option messages (dashed).(b)Anatomy of an assistant message: the body is organized into think,
response, and tools channels.(c)Expansion of the tools channel: parallel tool calls are indexed so that tool results can be
matched to their calls, and arguments are typed.
Proof of Theorem 2 (Tightness of the Upper Bound)Construct a router output I∗ as follows: the experts on EP
rank 0 receive no tokens, while all experts on the other R−1 ranks share all tokens evenly. Then all S×K×R
tokens are evenly divided amongE(R−1)/R experts, so each expert receives SKR 2
E(R−1) tokens. Under any plan P ,
rank 0 must receiveS×K tokens, all of which are remote, and these tokens involve at leastSK
 SKR 2
E(R−1) = E(R−1)
R2
distinct experts; taking the ceiling, rank 0 requires at least
l
E(R−1)
R2
m
redundant experts, henceM(I∗)≥
l
E(R−1)
R2
m
.
Conversely, by constructing a plan with the filling procedure from the proof of Theorem 1 and migrating tokens
expert-wise preferentially, the number of redundant experts on every rank can be kept within this value, so equality
holds. Since
l
E(R−1)
R2
m
≈ E
R whenR is large, the upper bound in Theorem 1 is essentially tight: there is no general
upper bound significantly smaller thanE/R.
F Chat Template
The Kimi K3 chat template is redesigned around three goals. The first isextensibility: new capabilities should be
introduced through backward-compatible message formats rather than template revisions, so that a single template serves
the entire model generation. The second is alow alignment tax: the format should be learnable with minimal supervised
data, supporting a pipeline in which a lightly fine-tuned pre-trained model can proceed directly to reinforcement
learning. The third isdecoding friendliness: the structure should admit simple encoders, streaming parsers, and
grammar-constrained enforcers. To these ends, the template adopts XTML (eXtensible Token Markup Language), an
XML-like markup in which the angle-bracket syntax is replaced by three reserved special tokens: [open], [sep]
and [close], with an additional [end_of_msg] token as the generation stop marker. An element [open]tag
attr="value"[sep] ... [close]tag[sep] is isomorphic to its XML counterpart, but every structural boundary
is an explicit special token, which removes tokenization ambiguity at element boundaries and simplifies constrained
decoding.
Messages and zonesThe top-level unit of the context is the message, and messages fall into two categories by origin
(Fig. 16a).Input messagesserialize the messages field of the request, covering the familiar system, user, assistant,
and tool roles.Option messagestranslate request options into instructions that the model reads in context, and their
placement reflects their scope.Global options—the tool declaration ( type="tool-declare") and the reasoning-
effort setting—appear before all input messages: they govern the whole session and rarely change, so modifying
them invalidates the KV cache anyway.One-shot options( tool_choice, response_format) are appended after
the input messages, so that per-request changes leave the history KV cache intact. A third kind, theinput option
message, is interleaved with input messages to supplement or override a global option mid-session. This mechanism
46
===== PAGE 47 =====
Kimi K3: Open Frontier IntelligenceTECHNICALREPORT
supportsdynamically loaded tools: tools retrieved or loaded during a conversation are announced through an additional
tool-declare message, after which the model’s available toolset expands without rebuilding the preceding context.
ChannelsThe body of an assistant message is organized intochannels, a concept inspired by OpenAI’s Harmony
response format [86]: think carries the reasoning trace, response the user-visible answer, and tools the tool calls
(Fig. 16b). The two generation modes are selected purely through the generation prefix— [open]think[sep] for
thinking mode and [open]response[sep] for instruct mode—rather than through separate templates. Kimi K3
supports onlypreserved thinking: in thinking mode, the think channel is always retained in the history—kept even when
its content is empty—so that the model observes a consistent message structure across turns; in instruct mode, historical
messages contain only the response and tools channels.
Tool callingWithin the tools channel, each call carries tool and index attributes; the index numbers parallel calls
within a message, and each tool-result message repeats the same tool/index pair and follows the order of its call, so
that results are unambiguously associated with calls. Arguments are typed: string arguments appear as raw text, while
values of other JSON types are compactly serialized. Free-form text such as code is therefore a first-class citizen rather
than an escaped JSON string. A pure-JSON fallback block covers inputs whose arguments cannot be decomposed into
typed argument blocks; it occurs only in input tokens, never in model outputs, and its loss is masked during training.
Reasoning effort and optionsReasoning effort is exposed as a global option message of type thinking-effort,
inserted after the tool declaration and before the input messages. Instead of modifying the generation prefix or
exposing a token budget, the message states the requested level in natural language and acts as a generation-constraint
instruction. The schema reserves four levels (low, medium, high, and max), of which Kimi K3 supports a subset. This
representation decouples the effort interface from the template syntax, and it aligns directly with the effort-conditioned
training described in §4.1.1 and §4.1.2.
More broadly, this is the common implementation of all option messages: tool_choice, response_format, and
thinking-effort are each translated into a short natural-language instruction placed in context, rather than into
dedicated special syntax. Because the pre-trained model already follows such instructions well, new options can be
introduced with little or no additional training—a direct embodiment of the low-alignment-tax design principle stated
above.
47